1. Squeamish

1 Easily made to feel sick or disgusted.



Examples: 

‘I've always been squeamish about bugs’

‘Oddly, eating meat didn't make me feel squeamish or sick.’

‘The squeamish and easily offended will find a lot to complain about, but what's new?’

‘Most Africans have a very close relationship with the land, even the city people, who are squeamish about bugs and scared to death of gorillas.’

‘They might get squeamish at the sight of blood or faint when thinking about it or are looking at it.’

‘There was also evidence before the jury that Adams was not a violent man and was squeamish at the sight of blood.’

‘Now I might just warn you girls, if you are squeamish and don't like the sight of men in the raw, then don't bother to check the link.’

‘I am actually quite squeamish and don't like the sight of blood.’

‘I'm not squeamish, and it was fascinating to watch the incision and lifting out of the uterus, but when the puppies themselves were brought into the world, it was too much for me.’

‘Daddy has a Robert De Niro kind of understated menace and when you see him at work with his barber's blade, the effect is to make your internal organs shrink with squeamish empathy.’

‘For those who are not squeamish, balut is a ripe duck egg containing a one-week-old chick, boiled in water for 10 to 15 minutes and then served as it is.’

‘‘It was very well made, but not for the squeamish,’ he said.’

‘But at least the liberal men should feel squeamish about it.’

‘Now I can tell you right here there was no pain involved, but if you're squeamish about things happening to eyes, then change channels right now…’

‘I can only note that the English-language press is far more squeamish about publishing grisly images than their continental European cousins.’

‘The squeamish will be relieved to know that all surgery and injections are carried out while the aircraft are on the ground because the risk of turbulence is too high to perform operations in flight.’

‘I didn't mind eating the meat at all, but at that age I was just a little bit too squeamish to join in enthusiastically gnawing away at the poor little bunny's bones.’

‘If you're squeamish about insects, skip this story.’

‘Bear with me while I list them, and apologies to the squeamish.’

‘‘I'm never squeamish and I don't usually get upset when I see a body,’ she says.’



1.1 Having fastidious moral views; scrupulous.



Examples: 

‘she was not squeamish about using her social influence in support of her son’

‘Is it that the United States has grown more moral in the last 50 years - or, depending on your point of view, more squeamish?’

‘In their boasts, dissidents are lady-killers; in their writings, they are squeamish, priggish, and prudish.’

‘What interrogation tactics would make both the FBI and the CIA squeamish about their field officers' participation?’

‘In short, they are not squeamish or unduly troubled by conscience when it comes to hurting us two-legged animals.’

‘The battle we really are engaged in - and we are too squeamish to describe - is against a particular brand of fundamentalism.’

‘In particular, is the U.S. media too squeamish about running photos of dead and wounded soldiers?’

‘So it's strange, therefore, and not a little paranoid of the family to be squeamish about the book, because the only truly unflattering portrait painted here is that of its author.’

‘While much of the population understandably gets squeamish at the idea of businesses making money out of the elderly and the disadvantaged, there is a market that has to be served.’

‘Is there anyone else who is squeamish about this sort of public investigation into a nominee's personal religious beliefs?’

‘It's clear that if the regime thinks it can get away with murdering foreign journalists it won't be squeamish about dealing with its internal opposition.’

‘Thomson accepts, however, that the British are still somewhat squeamish about the sight of the very rich being congratulated about doing good.’

‘‘We'll have to think about transferring some suspects to our less squeamish allies,’ he says.’

‘I oppose the death penalty, but not for Stephen's squeamish reasons that one innocent person in 100 might get hanged, My opposition is more visceral than that.’



Related Forms: 

unsqueamish, adjective
oversqueamish, adjective
squeamishly, adverb
oversqueamishly, adverb
oversqueamishness, noun
unsqueamishly, adverb
unsqueamishness, noun
squeamishness, noun



French: 

 hypersensible
 je ne supporte pas la vue du sang
 ceilm n'est pas conseillé aux âmes sensibles



2. Fastidious

1 Very attentive to and concerned about accuracy and detail.



Examples: 

‘she dressed with fastidious care’

‘In its overall design and fastidious attention to detail, the table reflects the concept of presenting a useful, industrially produced object that is a work of art.’

‘He plays it deadpan, with impeccable style and fastidious attention to detail, but of course that only enhances the absurdity.’

‘Aside from this fastidious attention to detail, the designer's work has few distinguishing features.’

‘He's a detail man, obsessively fastidious to the point that he still handles the steady-cam himself, to get those shots just right.’

‘He is eloquent at description, fastidious about mythic details, but reticent about his personal life.’

‘His playing is not only passionately alluring but also remarkably fastidious to the slightest detail in the scores.’

‘I was struck by the fastidious care with which the parties divided up the cost of the vacations they took together; sometimes calculations were made to the penny.’

‘For the fastidious reader interested in precise historical accuracy, these flaws are very substantial.’

‘He had to carefully attend to each customer's fastidious demands.’

‘The central characters are fastidious, scrupulous and articulate.’

‘Why does a conductor so fastidious and precise with an orchestra always seem so blithely undisturbed by such unidiomatic, out-of-tune singing?’

‘A first-year student at Williams may well become frustrated with such fastidious nit-picking.’

‘He made relatively few films and gained the reputation of being a fastidious and sometimes ruthless perfectionist.’

‘They want you to do everything to them, but then are too fastidious to name it.’

‘Why be so fastidious in dealing with the likes of Norman?’

‘In retrospect, I wish I had been more fastidious.’

‘His appearance strikes me as unusual for a middle-aged man - overly fastidious and somehow too calculated.’

‘I've looked for holes in the armor but Donaldson's too fastidious.’

‘This Prime Minister, who is so fastidious about all matters, says that she was happy to leave the judgment on this issue up to her electorate office staff.’

‘The owner of our company is pretty fastidious in choosing products that are naturally and environmentally sound.’



1.1 Very concerned about matters of cleanliness.



Examples: 

‘the child seemed fastidious about getting her fingers dirty’

‘It does not matter how fastidious one is, how thoroughly and often one washes one's hands or even how many vitamins one takes, one is still likely to get sick from long-haul air travel.’

‘He always loves to have everything very chic and polished and fastidious.’

‘When I started cleaning carpets, I realized early that my standards of cleaning weren't up to the level of some of the highly fastidious clients I was attracting.’

‘Paul was fastidious when it came to cleanliness.’

‘The mouse genome, it seems, is more fastidious with its housecleaning than the human.’

‘One or two buckets will do for a clean bath for even the most fastidious person.’

‘The food may be healthy, but the conditions under which it's made are far from the standards demanded by fastidious Westerners.’



Related Forms: 

ultrafastidious, adjective
overfastidiously, adverb
nonfastidiously, adverb
hyperfastidiousness, noun
unfastidiousness, noun
hyperfastidiously, adverb
hyperfastidious, adjective
ultrafastidiousness, noun
overfastidiousness, noun
unfastidiously, adverb
ultrafastidiously, adverb
fastidiousness, noun
fastidiously, adverb
overfastidious, adjective
unfastidious, adjective
nonfastidiousness, noun
nonfastidious, adjective



French: 

 tatillon, pointilleux
 méticuleux, minutieux
 minutieux
 il est d'une coquetterie méticuleuse
 méticuleux, maniaque



3. Scrupulous

1 (of a person or process) careful, thorough, and extremely attentive to details.



Examples: 

‘the research has been carried out with scrupulous attention to detail’

‘This is always an issue for the scrupulous scholar - what to enlarge upon, what to jettison - but this is the only equivocation about this impressive book, written with both passion and clarity.’

‘She is scrupulous about disclosing her sources and acknowledging her debts while insistent that her aesthetic judgments are based on what she has looked at hard and pondered.’

‘However, right at the beginning he is scrupulous in distinguishing the two terms.’

‘Both he and Taylor are scrupulous in conveying how the photographs would have looked to Dodgson's audience.’

‘To be sure, Meyer makes such large-scale historical revisions and theoretical shifts only implicitly and through the lens of scrupulous historical detail.’

‘Probably the most painstaking part of the job is the scrupulous documentation process.’

‘Weinberg's strengths as an art historian owe largely to his scrupulous attention to the visual field.’

‘Individually and as a group, Cubist images demand the viewer's scrupulous attention.’

‘He seems as active in the process now as he ever was, appropriately scrupulous in the crediting and remembering of what was given, by whom and when.’

‘You sense only the labor-intensive detailing of a boat modeler, no doubt scrupulous but also antiquarian.’

‘Their compositions were symmetrical and bathed in an even light; only perfect examples of cultivars in full bloom were included, and individual blooms were painted with scrupulous accuracy.’

‘The first ‘Station’ gives us a curved cross suspended from a short, rusty chain, the figure in lean, scrupulous profile.’

‘It has never been so scrupulous in its methods, so inclusive in the questions it asks - and so incurious about what might be called the aesthetic life of a building.’

‘The effects of such scrupulous husbandry are manifest by the way in which the cultivated and natural landscape merge into one another in a rare reciprocity.’

‘He periodically returns to a monochromatic style, punctuated by scrupulous forays into vivid chromatic declarations.’

‘In those days Bob was scrupulous about fully crediting Gerry - and appropriately crediting everyone in the office.’

‘Ghost World and The Royal Tenenbaums would not be among my favorites for the year if not for their scrupulous production design.’

‘The scrupulous fabrication of the low-relief wall ensembles in this show approaches the perverse.’

‘Brown is scrupulous in presenting what is, and what is not, known about these situations.’

‘He inherited standards of economy in design and of scrupulous execution from Domenico Veneziano and Fra Angelico, though he lacked the imaginative powers of either.’



1.1 Very concerned to avoid doing wrong.



Examples: 

‘she's too scrupulous to have an affair with a married man’

‘This research provides evidence that developing a corporate culture that stresses honesty and scrupulous behavior is not only the right thing to do, but produces real savings to the cooperative as well.’

‘The title's meanings remain only provisionally understood, but the term's significance was bound up in notions of learning, the righteousness of tradition, and the scrupulous observance of ritual obligation.’

‘Seeking to protect his pregnant wife, gangster Gui decides to give himself up to the authorities, only to find his act of self-sacrifice results in the loss of everything to less scrupulous rivals.’



Related Forms: 

hyperscrupulously, adverb
scrupulously, adverb
hyperscrupulousness, noun
scrupulousness, noun
hyperscrupulous, adjective
underscrupulous, adjective
underscrupulously, adverb
hyperscrupulosity, noun
scrupulosity  [skroo-pyuh-los-i-tee] /ˌskru pyəˈlɒs ɪ ti/, scrupulousness, noun



French: 

 scrupuleux, méticuleux
 elle prête une attention scrupuleuse à laaçon dont elle s'habille
 ils tiennent beaucoup à la ponctualité
 scrupuleux



4. Innately

 As an inborn characteristic; naturally.



Examples: 

‘he says females are innately predisposed to learn about people and their emotions’

‘innately flawed policies’



Related Forms: 

uninnately, adverb
innateness, noun
uninnate, adjective
uninnateness, noun
innately, adverb



French: 

 naturellement



5. Shrug

1 Raise (one's shoulders) slightly and momentarily to express doubt, ignorance, or indifference.



Examples: 

‘Jimmy looked enquiringly at Pete, who shrugged his shoulders’

no object ‘he just shrugged and didn't look interested’

‘It is such a pity that their time and our taxes are being wasted on something which has the majority of our citizens shrugging their shoulder.’

‘At the end they didn't actually leave the stage but just stumbled around shrugging their shoulders looking lost.’

‘Instead of shrugging his shoulders, he became agitated and a sarcastic torrent of words flew out.’

‘He gave her one look before shrugging his shoulders and heading out the door.’

‘He answered, shrugging his shoulders and stuffing his hands into his jeans pockets.’

‘Heath's eyes softened and he dropped his hands to his lap, shrugging his shoulders.’

‘Carl looked at the man in the corner for a second before shrugging his shoulders and getting up and walking away in the opposite direction.’

‘Try shrugging your shoulders up and down and rotating them in a circular motion.’

‘She gave Pete a pointed looked before shaking her head and shrugging her shoulders.’

‘Most of us have been guilty of shrugging our shoulders in the past over natural disasters in South Asia.’

‘He pointed at me across the table, shrugging his head in the direction of the house.’

‘In the past this kind of stunt would have been shrugged off as a tasteless example of daytime television.’

‘After a few more uptempo hits Joe turned questioningly to one of his musicians, shrugging slightly.’

‘She just shrugs, and the jacket begins to slide off her shoulders.’

‘Guzman pauses, then shrugs her shoulders and sighs.’

‘Annette did a short shrug that I'd seen her do a million times during the interview.’

‘Ling shakes her head in degust at Ashley, who just shrugs.’

‘Cyclist Lance Armstrong, en route to a fourth Tour de France victory, shrugs off accusations that he takes drugs’

‘The financial controller of a foreign retailer shrugs his shoulders.’

‘I turn a touch, stopped in my tracks, to see the bar-manager shrug his shoulder in subdued agreement.’



1.1 Dismiss something as unimportant.



Examples: 

‘the managing director shrugged off the criticism’

‘The fact that he wasn't shying away from the fact that I wasn't human, and was simply shrugging it off as unimportant gave me some strength.’

‘He shrugged them off, dismissing them as his mind playing tricks in a strange place.’

‘She stared at him, confused by the cold dismissal, but shrugged it off.’

‘She shrugged it off as unimportant information as the man asked another question.’

‘Ashlee just shrugged the criticism off as usual, but deep down I know it hurts her.’

‘Any determination to ignore them or to simply shrug them off would sacrifice the only weapon realistically available in the fight.’

‘The time has come, say its critics, to shrug it off, to clear it from the desk, to consign it to outer darkness.’

‘The new people looked confused and the veterans of the school shrugged it off and gobbled down the sandwich forgetting about the name in the bag.’

‘He shrugged it off and yelled at some kid who forgot their hall pass.’

‘He had completely forgotten about the conversation, and just shrugged it off.’

‘She'd tried to shrug it off, but knew she couldn't ignore it.’

‘How did one just shrug it off and put it to the side, pretending to forget about everything?’

‘She shrugs them off at the turn like someone would an insect that sneaked inside their clothes.’

‘I shower her with pathetic gratitude, and she shrugs it off, embarrassed.’

‘He was told about it and he kind of shrugged it off as we did.’

‘When asked if the weather bothered them, they shrugged it off.’

‘He's been threatening us on occasion for a year now, so I shrugged it off.’

‘My husband shrugged it off as just another one of my confusing emotional episodes, soon to pass with a lot of chocolate and a strong pot of coffee.’



1 An act or instance of shrugging one's shoulders.



Examples: 

‘she lifted her shoulders in a dismissive shrug’

‘What was anticipated as a big fat Greek embrace turned instead into a casual shrug of the shoulders.’

‘Any restaurant that gets a shrug of the shoulders and a hand waving in the manner of an umpire should consider it a moral victory.’

‘There is no outrage, just a shrug of the shoulders.’

‘All this we could handle with a mere shrug of the shoulders and a wry grin if only the sun were out and the sky was blue.’

‘Victor smiles and shrugs, digs his hands into his leather pockets and trudges on across the damp sand.’

‘His facial expressions, his shrugs, were professional-quality ridicule.’

‘In recent years, security while backpacking has sadly become too great an issue to dismiss with a shrug.’

‘While the shrug is a gesture of renunciation, it is also a performance that maintains dignity.’

‘If that doesn't work, he will simply dismiss criticism with an arrogant shrug.’

‘She gushed while Sol just looked at me with a bemused expression and raised one shoulder in a short shrug.’

‘Greer grunted again, accompanying the sound with a short shrug and a jerk of the head.’

‘Shoulder shrugs are yet another effective way to decrease stress, since most of us feel stress in our shoulders.’

‘He shunted away her protests with a shrug of his shoulders.’

‘Bryce hitched one shoulder in a shrug and reached for a fork.’

‘I commented with a gentle shrug of the shoulders.’

‘Blake moved his left shoulder in a half-hearted shrug and sat down next to her on the rock, carefully cradling his right arm.’

‘He lifted a shoulder in a one-sided shrug and then lit a cigarette.’

‘For the third time, I rolled my eyes adding a shrug of my shoulders.’

‘You can cultivate a laconic shrug of the shoulders for use when the conversation turns to your putting, or putting in general.’

‘‘You're not going to stop me,’ Tamora replied with a shrug of her shoulders.’



2 A woman's close-fitting cardigan or jacket, cut short at the front and back so that only the arms and shoulders are covered.



Examples: 

‘Also key is quirky detail: a velvet ribbon tied at the waist of a jacket; a fur shrug worn over a sloppy knit; a brooch or a corsage fastening a cardigan.’

‘Real or faux fur, shrugs, stoles or capelets are also great alternatives.’

‘Also a light brown camisole tank top, and a short white sweater shrug that had a chocolate brown colored tie in the front.’

‘Julian Macdonald was master of a sophisticated show that had mink bomber jackets, leather seamed skirts and snakeskin pants worn with fox fur shrugs.’

‘Try a furry shrug or caplet or anything with some feathers.’

‘We suggest matching a simple camisole with a shrug.’

‘Lacy airy knits will be made into mid 1960's empire cape styles as summer shrugs that do the job Pashminas once did.’

‘Worn with a feather shrug you will ooze elegance and style.’

‘A combination of the two, the shoulder shrug gives you the convenience of bolero sleeves and the elegance of a draped scarf.’



Related Forms: 

unshrugging, adjective



French: 

 hausser les épaules
 hausser les épaules
 haussement  m  d'épaules
  dédaigner
aire abstraction de ses problèmes
 on ne peut pasaire simplement comme si le problème n'existait pas



6. Impudent

 Not showing due respect for another person; impertinent.



Examples: 

‘he could have strangled this impudent upstart’

‘True, it was innovative and his talent unquestionable; but still there was a feeling among many that such a fresh and impudent style may be better employed elsewhere.’

‘I glared at her, not caring if she thought me rude or impudent.’

‘Sundarar, on the other hand, is impudent, and addresses the Lord with pert familiarity.’

‘De Sica's fifth film was not a financial success, however, and its negative reception was in part engineered by those who saw it as an impudent criticism of Italian morality.’

‘Does this impudent, dishonourable journalist think he is the equal of Tolstoy, physically, intellectually, artistically, or morally?’

‘‘I think this is an arrogant, impudent and immoral act,’ Sneh said.’

‘My problem is not with the fact that people do not know what it is, my problem is with the currently impudent attitude towards that which is unfamiliar and the reluctance to admit to ignorance.’

‘It used to be that if there was an over-the-top comedian who said impudent things that outraged stuffed-shirt reactionaries, they would always be coming from the left.’

‘I must destroy those impudent toddlers, and this time, I won't leave their fate in the hands of an incompetent, backstabbing crow!’

‘His thoughts are blatantly impudent to say the least.’

‘At first he doesn't care for her impudent suggestion, but then he realises that she might actually be onto something.’

‘It is to the opposition leader's credit that he did not eviscerate the impudent youth on the spot.’

‘It may have sounded somewhat impudent, particularly in my sullen tone of voice.’

‘‘I'd call you an idiot, but it would be an insult to stupid people,’ Lon retorted with an impudent grin.’

‘Hardcastle had found him impudent because the man, Marlow, had treated him like a servant (someone else had told Marlow that the house was an inn, and so he thought Hardcastle was the innkeeper).’

‘‘Oh, yes we will,’ Jacob said with an impudent grin.’

‘He let out an amused, mocking grin, took out another impudent puff of smoke, then replied, ‘It's not written in the school handbook.’’

‘‘Do not be impudent,’ the elders said, still speaking as one.’

‘‘Oh, you impudent child,’ Mrs. Hastings muttered through clenched teeth.’



Related Forms: 

impudently, adverb
impudentness, noun



French: 

 effronté, impudent
 il est effronté avec ses professeurs



7. Audacity

1 A willingness to take bold risks.



Examples: 

‘he whistled at the sheer audacity of the plan’

‘I think the faculty was more impressed by my adventurous spirit and audacity than my celestial beauty in that performance!’

‘And it's ten times worse if somebody learns that I've got a website and has the sheer audacity to actually ask for the URL.’

‘An amazing scheme - both for it's simplicity and sheer audacity.’

‘Only now has the sheer scale and audacity of the operation become clear.’

‘Sometimes, you just have to step back and admire the sheer audacity of these guys.’

‘For the sheer ambition and audacity of this venture, he deserves to be congratulated.’

‘Just as you marvel at the ingenuity of the filmmaking, you laugh at the sheer audacity of it all.’

‘The sheer audacity and scope of the Manhattan Project remain impressive today.’

‘But the film is also notable for capturing the sheer energetic audacity of Mick Jagger's persona.’

‘What gripped you most as you watched him was his sheer audacity.’

‘The freshness of the form in both plays is more than matched by the daring freshness and audacity of the content.’

‘Then he burst out laughing, and embraced the great designer, congratulating him on his audacity and courage.’

‘He scored four times and thrilled the footballing world with his audacity, his fearlessness, his youth.’

‘There is no passion, no audacity and no commitment at all evidenced in this film.’

‘He came to dominate it by shrewdness, audacity and the huge force and charm of his personality.’

‘The reason, in his own words, is his forthrightness and audacity.’

‘Like her books, her life story must be read in a historical context to appreciate its richness, its disregard for convention, its audacity.’

‘I have seen swallows do this and I marvel at their audacity.’

‘The terrorist acts that day were breathtaking in their murderous audacity.’

‘The final play of rugby was breathtaking in its audacity.’



2 Rude or disrespectful behaviour; impudence.



Examples: 

‘she had the audacity to suggest I'd been carrying on with him’

‘Once again he was lambasted and mocked when he had the audacity to put forward a logical explanation.’

‘She then had the audacity to allege that I had exaggerated the truth in order to win a government grant of 750,000 to improve road safety.’

‘I can't believe that person actually had the audacity to say something like that.’

‘One of the bars even had the audacity to display a trading certificate in the place where the licence should have been placed.’

‘And some little pipsqueak of a lawyer somewhere has had the audacity to question this award.’

‘I couldn't believe this guy had the audacity to do something like this in the middle of the day!’

‘This idiot and his team of oafs had the audacity to patronize and laugh at Eugene last night.’

‘But Dan had had the audacity to simply wander into my life and rearrange it to suit him, and what he wanted.’

‘They couldn't believe that Josh had the audacity to say that in front of the boss, but he didn't care.’

‘She spoke with disdain in her voice and openly insulted him, then had the audacity to look pleased with herself.’

‘He had the audacity to laugh in her face, as if she was still a child.’

‘First she betrayed him, then she had the audacity to show up and rescue him.’

‘It'd been a while since someone had the audacity to yell at him like that.’

‘While she was being tried, she had the audacity to laugh at questions presented to her.’

‘Some of the women were indignant that I had the audacity to go on to their patch - it was their territory and I was seen as the intruder.’

‘That he had the audacity to dictate what American adults could and could not see was sickening.’

‘The boy had the audacity to lie to him, straight in his face for a second time.’

‘The sheer audacity and disdain for privacy and civil liberties was amazing.’

‘He was annoyed at my audacity, but at least he was honest.’

‘Stacey later told police he had no recollection of how he came by the injury and he could not believe their audacity in arresting him.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 audace , intrépidité 
 effronterie , impudence 
 il a eu l'audace de demander une augmentation (de salaire)



8. Pertinent

 Relevant or applicable to a particular matter; apposite.



Examples: 

‘she asked me a lot of very pertinent questions’

‘practitioners must consider all factors pertinent to a situation’

‘The accused's attention will no doubt be drawn to any relevant and pertinent questions asked at interview.’

‘There is one more thing I want to say, about a matter that is pertinent to that.’

‘That, I'll concede, makes it at least slightly pertinent to the subject matter.’

‘Yet it's the kind of question that really is pertinent in all the circumstances.’

‘It also raises a number of critical questions that are pertinent to five key areas of business.’

‘The second issue may be particularly pertinent to sensitive topics but has a wider applicability.’

‘There are also some implications pertinent to both researchers and professionals.’

‘A useful and more pertinent account of the pictures themselves is handed out on admission to the exhibition.’

‘For those who yearn for a more gentler age, it is a perfect destination; a pertinent reminder of how life used to be.’

‘It is pertinent that all parties involved in the peace process remain engaged.’

‘Yes, victory here would be a pertinent win for the British golden girl.’

‘In fact, it is a challenge more pertinent to Britain than anywhere else.’

‘I don't know if it was a publicity thing, but he does raise some pertinent issues.’

‘That leads me to another point in the fight against crime that is very pertinent to the discussion.’

‘We have tried to study all the pertinent factors that have a direct or indirect bearing on such costs.’

‘At the time, it was a triumphant, pertinent, poetic and amusing choice to all of them.’

‘They should be giving him much more pertinent advice as to what he should and shouldn't say.’

‘The study, so pertinent in its timing, demonstrates that asylum seekers are also victims.’

‘I happen to think his remarks highly pertinent, which is why I have reproduced them here.’

‘There are many pertinent quotes in the article, but you really need to read it in its entirety.’



Related Forms: 

unpertinent, adjective
nonpertinence, noun
pertinence, noun
nonpertinent, adjective
unpertinently, adverb
pertinence, pertinency, noun
pertinently, adverb
nonpertinently, adverb
nonpertinency, noun



French: 

 pertinent, à propos



9. Impertinent

1 Not showing proper respect; rude.



Examples: 

‘an impertinent question’

‘They can ask us the most impertinent or rude questions but, obviously, we cannot ask, hint at or even think about anything approaching the same.’

‘The waiter was brusque to the point of being rude and impertinent, messed up the orders and was not particularly responsive.’

‘I suppose you think I'm rude and impertinent, barging in here and insisting I knew you.’

‘He deals very well with even the most impertinent questions.’

‘One shouldn't ask such impertinent questions.’

‘These are impertinent questions, and their only aim is to reduce any claims as much as possible.’

‘Dave did something more reporters should do more often in our media culture: Ask an impertinent question, and then try to find the answer.’

‘There's no choice but to speak ill of the dead and ask impertinent questions about the emperor's clothes.’

‘For an agonizing 20 minutes, he politely fielded a volley of impertinent questions.’

‘All of us, that is, have a child-reader within asking shrewd and impertinent questions.’

‘She discouraged impertinent curiosity with frozen silence and there is an uneasy feeling, as one reads, that one is prying into her chosen privacy.’

‘The great, the good and the rich rule their fiefdoms without having to put up with any impertinent interference from the people who do most of the work or buy the goods.’

‘Admittedly, the question was cheeky, perhaps even a little impertinent.’

‘In a less statist society, the very idea of a legal work week, except perhaps for minors and pregnant women, would probably be regarded as weird, presumptuous and actually impertinent.’

‘And this step is an impertinent intrusion in peoples' personal lives.’

‘She was an impertinent child who displayed no respect for me or this city of ours.’

‘I hope you don't feel that I am being impertinent to you in raising those matters with you.’

‘It seems a bit impertinent to ask if this relationship needs a license to endure.’

‘I have been told by some of the publicists associated with the movie that I'm a little impertinent to be leading any chorus in that direction.’

‘It would have been impertinent to talk about pay or pensions; but about land mines I hoped that I might receive a hearing, as the Member of Parliament most often nearly blown up by them.’



2 Not pertinent to a particular matter; irrelevant.



Examples: 

‘talk of ‘rhetoric’ and ‘strategy’ is impertinent to this process’

‘However the compilation fits together so seamlessly that it would be rather impertinent to keep on discussing individual items.’

‘It is so frustrating that the bleached images of the alien world are so ruggedly handsome and so unjustified and impertinent to the plot at the same time.’

‘The students believed that the goal of their required first-year course was to improve their writing, and for that reason my effort to pose writing as a subject of analysis was misguided at best and at worst impertinent and irrelevant.’

‘There are in these uninterrupted hundred minutes valuable insights, humorous anecdotes, pertinent and impertinent asides.’

‘A couple of years ago a bunch of them sat through a four-hour meeting with yours truly and answered a whole lot of questions, both pertinent and impertinent.’



Related Forms: 

unimpertinent, adjective
unimpertinently, adverb
impertinently, adverb
impertinentness, noun



French: 

 impertinent, insolent
 être impertinent envers quelqu'un
 hors de propos, non pertinent



10. Vacillate

 Waver between different opinions or actions; be indecisive.



Examples: 

‘I vacillated between teaching and journalism’

‘Since the time of his death informed opinion has vacillated between near universal confidence in his guilt and passionate attempts to exonerate him.’

‘However, years of indecisiveness have left the company vacillating between a differentiation strategy and that of being a cost leader.’

‘Ask her for an opinion, and she'll give it to you without any hesitation or attempts to vacillate.’

‘Certainly, public opinion of the royals has vacillated so much over the past couple of decades that anything is possible.’

‘He has vacillated between contradictory approaches to leadership: realism and idealism.’

‘The government should give leadership, and not procrastinate and vacillate, he said, although he recognised it could take 20 years.’

‘That's partly because the party's candidates have come across as vacillating on military issues and lenient on social concerns like crime and federal ‘giveaways’ to the poor.’

‘I don't know, I keep vacillating on whether I should practice so I could make a point in a very humorous way, or whether I should just stay off it.’

‘It's difficult to say, but indeed I am vacillating between the two.’

‘Stay firm with decisions at work and don't keep vacillating.’

‘Well, I usually, keep on vacillating between being a hardcore realist and a hopeless romantic.’

‘The president vacillates between the two (hard-line and moderate) camps.’

‘‘The nation's top law enforcer cannot be someone who vacillates between civil rights and Civil War fantasies,’ Jackson wrote.’

‘He vacillates between childlike bemusement and childlike trepidation.’

‘Its programming vacillates between easily recognized art house fare and mainstream movies, giving the impression that it doesn't really know what it wants to be.’

‘He vacillated when he was asked the direct question at an Irish press conference about the Sunderland job and immediately established in some people's minds the belief that he was actively looking for another job.’

‘In his later comments on the Marx Brothers, he vacillated between generosity and steely contempt.’

‘The first week or two I vacillated, like most people, between sadness and anger.’

‘My children bring me great joy (especially as the little ones vacillate between squirming with curiosity and tittering with barely kept secrets in anticipation of Christmas).’

‘My listening tastes vacillate between music and talk radio.’



Related Forms: 

vacillation, noun
vacillator, noun



French: 

  hésiter



11. Bold

1 (of a person, action, or idea) showing a willingness to take risks; confident and courageous.



Examples: 

‘a bold attempt to solve the crisis’

‘no journalist was bold enough to take on the Prime Minister’

‘Andreu, one of the world's leading experts in airport design, has been praised for the exceptional engineering which allows his bold ideas to come to life.’

‘To say it is a bold idea is not to say that it's new.’

‘His job has been to head a congregation whose assignment is not to generate new and bold ideas, but to preserve the integrity of the tradition of the church.’

‘I have the experience and I have the bold ideas that I think people can get really excited about in this campaign.’

‘Anything lowering their chances of being spotted by Liches sounded like a good idea, so the tension at Raven's bold suggestion quickly subsided.’

‘Judge Jones was a bankruptcy lawyer and an authority on business law, but has perhaps received more attention for her bold opinions on social issues and criminal law.’

‘But Brian, I'd like you to consider a bold suggestion.’

‘All the bold opinions have been stated and restated for years.’

‘While Nicky watched and marvelled, his father Paul, rating Rio the finest place he has been, was struck by the bold attitudes towards poverty.’

‘The customers' bold suggestion was to launch a restaurant of their own, but Huang was still quite cautious about it.’

‘It is in that light that the bold suggestion is made for a Caribbean Banking Consortium.’

‘It's a bold concept, but one that's smartly conveyed by its paintings and hypnotic jingle.’

‘Without them and their bold thoughts Keighley would not be what it is today.’

‘Because of his bold recommendations to higher headquarters, he was assigned to build up defensive units.’

‘Kamenskii stakes out a series of bold interpretations in this study, ably translated and edited by David Griffiths.’

‘Plato had made the bold suggestion that there might be a single axiom system to embrace all knowledge.’

‘Yet because we yearn to be seen as bold, brave and courageous, we'll take stupid risks to prove our worth.’

‘The others, who had gathered to discuss the problem, gasped in shock at such a bold suggestion.’

‘In its first national advertising campaign, Infinite Spirits took a bold risk.’

‘Most were young, hardy, physically fit, courageous, fearless, bold, endowed with fortitude and endurance, and ever ready for a fight.’



1.1 (of a person or their manner) so confident as to be impudent or presumptuous.



Examples: 

‘she tossed him a bold look’

‘No man's Mercedes is safe; the thieves are so bold they'll make off with your vintage automobile with a forklift.’

‘With a shrug, Lenore plopped down on the tiny chair of her table, crossing her legs in a bold manner.’

‘I believe that such feelings will not be considered bold presumption but an act of love.’

‘Whatever bold words she wished to say to her would have to remain behind a careful mouth.’

‘Raven doubted that any woman had ever been this bold with him before.’



1.2 (especially of a child) naughty; badly behaved.



Examples: 

‘I slapped him when he was bold’

‘Like a bold boy at a children's party, he still insists on being the centre of attention even though it's not his birthday.’



2 (of a colour, design, or shape) having a strong, vivid, or clear appearance.



Examples: 

‘a coat with bold polka dots’

‘Utzon's interior design was characterised by bold colours and fantastic shapes.’

‘There is less intricacy of detail, and the bold lines and strong colours relate them to North Indian folk art.’

‘They are like cartoons, with their bold lines, bright colours and flat shapes.’

‘She uses bright colours in bold designs to convey an impression of viewing the basic, unadulterated image.’

‘They are bold shapes; strong blocks of colour defined by thick black lines and veiled with subtle, intricate patterns of feathers, scales and seashells.’

‘The combination of the shapes and bold colours creates a stimulating image.’

‘The Romans called them the ‘painted people’, and the Celtic love of colour is obvious in the bold designs on their floors and walls.’

‘With new paints, dyes and synthetic fabrics, bright bold colour was avidly adopted in all aspects of design.’

‘Young readers will love the bright, bold designs and the luscious colours.’

‘He has composed a series of townships scenes in flat planes of bright and bold colours that clamour for attention.’

‘Using a brush and a matchstick to paint his decoys, Bergman achieved a unique balance between vivid colors, bold lines, and scratch painting.’

‘In Spain he created abstract work featuring vivid colors and bold lines.’

‘Just make sure the colors you choose fit with the bold hues of your design.’

‘The end product is a strong, vibrant painting in bold colours with a wealth of detail capturing the jumble of roofs and chimneys.’

‘The switches are large and solid, and the bold shapes and contours give the impression of utility without ever approaching the austere.’

‘They're also attracted to bright, bold colours and sharp outlines, and any sudden movement may attract their gaze.’

‘His symbolism is strong and his colours are bold.’

‘His designs were bold and sexy, with bright red dominating transparent and undulating fabrics.’

‘Bright colours and clear bold graphics make the menu practical and aesthetically pleasing.’

‘Facing west is a bold design of a fourfold leaf with a tiny, barely noticeable face in the centre.’



2.1 Of a kind of typeface having dark, heavy strokes, used especially for emphasis.



Examples: 

‘cross references are printed in bold type’

‘As if to emphasise the point, the report prints the comment in bold type.’

‘I'd like the following printed on all scorecards in bold type.’

‘Paragraph 3 has a footnote at the end in bold type.’

‘On the list of active chatters, a certain name in bold type sat above everyone else.’

‘The sites associated with the separation between Ethiopia and Europe are also given in bold type.’

‘Such themes are all clearly presented in the body of the commentary and helpfully emphasised in bold type.’

‘Subheadings within chapters are in bold type for easy chapter outlining.’

‘It's not often that an author is prompted to make a statement in bold type to correct what he sees as a gross misunderstanding.’

‘The differences from the previously reported sequences are in bold type’

‘Parameters to which the model is sensitive are in bold type.’

‘It's important to stress the words in bold type.’

‘Significant differences are shown in bold type.’

‘I emphasize the translated word in question in bold type.’

‘Key words and concepts in these lessons are in bold type.’

‘It's his name in bold type above the film's title and his beatific image on the poster.’

‘I noted at the time that each pen was emblazoned in bold type with the word WASHABLE.’

‘Only what is in bold type above was quoted in the evidence to the Court.’

‘Kelman reproduces it, with the cut portions in bold type, emphasising only what a good job was made of editing it.’

‘Predictions of exceptionally high tides are given in bold type.’

‘The final paragraph of the letter, printed in bold type, made it very clear what would happen if they didn't accept.’



 A bold typeface or letter.



Examples: 

‘Shadow cabinet members listed in bold’

‘Google will display the search keywords in bold in your ad if they're present.’

‘The questions will then pertain to that picture and the answers will be listed in bold under the questions.’

‘After I scribble ‘The Dimensional Traveler’ in bold on a blank page, I pick up another blank page.’

‘Pages not for public dissemination should be annotated in bold at the bottom with the reserved term ‘classified.’’

‘Numbers in bold at the beginning of each specimen's name are sample numbers.’

‘You must include the ‘code’ indicated in bold in order for your meta tags to work.’

‘Start putting keyword phrases in bold in the second paragraph.’

‘Unfortunately, it appears to be missing a ‘not’ in a vital sentence in bold on its opening page.’

‘The links are very easily read, the headlines are concise, and the use of bold in the copy allows for skimming without interfering with reading.’



 Dare to do something that might be considered audacious (used when politely asking a question or making a suggestion)



Examples: 

‘what would he be calling for, if I might make so bold as to ask?’

‘There are plenty of disgusting foods out there, but I don't think there are many companies that would dare to be so bold as to stick a name like Pork Brains In Milk Gravy right on the can.’

‘May I be so bold as to suggest one to add to your list.’

‘Might I be so bold as to suggest a synchronised charge tomorrow morning?’

‘I have always thought that Stanley was saying, in coded form, that he was being so bold as to speak to a gentleman to whom he hadn't been introduced.’

‘This time, however, the judges have been so bold as to overturn a jury decision on the simple basis that in their view no reasonable jury could have arrived at the verdict that it did.’

‘I have been so bold as to rank the Bengali icons of the past hundred years.’

‘The people of the Pairc district of Lewis have decided to be so bold as to opt to buy the land where they live from their landlord despite the estate not being on the market.’

‘In fact I would even be so bold as to contend that I have a much better argument on the evidence than Peggy does.’

‘If my friend can be so bold as to say I'm one of the funniest five people on the planet, why stop there?’

‘Might I also be so bold as to ask why it was rejected in any case?’



 Confident to the point of impudence.



Examples: 

‘she marched into the library as bold as brass’

‘Bold and brash - indeed bold as brass - the young property developer who sauntered into a moribund Tynecastle in 1981 was unfazed that he was not the players' choice.’

‘He now has colleagues who are full of confidence, bold as brass and ready to make their way in the world.’

‘They waltzed into the party bold as brass and started dancing with two men on the dance floor.’

‘Anybody who can walk into someone's house as bold as brass and attempt to commit a serious offence has to be viewed as a menace to society.’

‘She left a glorious legacy in an image of female strength that is as bold as brass, supremely self-confident and unashamedly sexual.’

‘Surely it would have been easier to run through the streets, bold as brass, killing anything and anyone that got in his way.’

‘Then they had returned, arm in arm, smiling secretly at each other and bold as brass.’

‘I thought it would be hard to find, but there it was, bold as brass, with a sign and everything.’

‘He was as bold as brass as we exchanged pleasantries and thought nothing of the remarks that he had made.’

‘He would go around the country and all the small towns and he would be as bold as brass.’



 A daring action or initiative.



Examples: 

‘the budget was full of bold strokes’

‘They can in one bold stroke change the economic coffee landscape with an initiative in support of the coffee farmers in the global village.’

‘It's a pretty bold stroke considering his history on some of these campaign fund-raising issues.’

‘In one bold stroke, Google will give new value to millions of orphaned works.’

‘In order to have a chance at anything but defeat, Sharon had to seize the advantage by some bold stroke.’

‘This was an incredibly bold stroke, and they could have been worried about retribution coming at any minute.’

‘This was a bold stroke by the board.’

‘While these men were not social revolutionaries bent on overturning the slave system in one bold stroke, nor were they solely foot draggers content to slow production.’

‘And that is what he invented recursive functions for, a bold stroke for which he would indeed deserve to be declared a hero of our times.’

‘It called for a bold stroke, not considered Pierce's forté.’

‘The team is expected to be active on Draft Day and could help its cause by making a bold stroke.’



Related Forms: 

overbold, adjective
unbold, adjective
superboldly, adverb
superbold, adjective
superboldness, noun
unboldly, adverb
boldly, adverb
overboldness, noun
unboldness, noun
overboldly, adverb
boldness, noun



French: 

 intrépide, hardi
 un projet audacieux or osé
 un coup d'audace
 il s'est enhardi dans ses tentatives
 assuré
 effronté
 puis-je me permettre de vous demander qui vous êtes?
 culotté
 puissant, hardi
 un style (d'écriture) hardi
 en puissant relief
 vif, éclatant
 en gras
 caractères  mpl  gras, gras  m



12. Hussy

 An impudent or immoral girl or woman.



Examples: 

‘that brazen little hussy!’

‘Even in this day and age, when unmarried mothers are hardly seen as shameless hussies anymore, there are still girls who suffer incredible loneliness because they daren't bring shame upon their families.’

‘The challenge is to win the fight to be ordinary - not to be forced into the role of camp court jesters or brazen sapphic hussies.’

‘Depending on your age, morals and various points of view, she was either the sexiest piece of work around or a brazen hussy or both.’

‘Of course, Carole was ignored, the brazen hussy!’

‘I mean, my standards weren't set too high as I knew her acting ability was probably limited to playing a brazen hussy with a deep voice, but still.’

‘The brazen hussy (as Mrs. Chadwick fondly refers to her) then strolls off in search of a stiff drink.’

‘I do not know that, but I know a brazen hussy when I see one.’

‘Since this is supposed to be a no-strings attached arrangement, I have no concern whatsoever when hussies and tramps strip him naked and devour him with their eyes.’

‘The good little girl was now the opportunistic hussy dumping her man to get together with the new most popular boy in school.’

‘I could say something about hussies who are all over another girl's boyfriends.’

‘His newly discovered letters to a friend reveal he thought her a forward hussy who was determined to seduce him.’

‘Why must I always take care of men, they're going to start thinking that I'm a hussy.’

‘‘We could do this all day’ Aurora said laughing, ‘just trust me, he will not think you are a hussy.’’

‘Lorraine tried to make Elaine look the hussy too, of course.’

‘It didn't take long until her mother walked into the bedroom to see the bed rocking with her husband and the hussy from next door.’

‘And when it came time to act out some Shakespeare parts, I ended up playing a hussy.’

‘All stories are trying to make the alleged victim look like a hussy.’

‘She will likely call her a hussy for finding someone so soon after a divorce she doesn't agree with.’

‘In the first scenario, she'll be remembered as the jaded hussy who couldn't see the value of what she had been given.’

‘He'll start bringing home two-bit hussies, whom I'll resent because they remind me of younger, more fun versions of myself.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 garce ,  gourgandine  (dated)
 espèce de garce!



13. Brazen

1 Bold and without shame.



Examples: 

‘he went about his illegal business with a brazen assurance’

‘a brazen hussy’

‘However, sometimes a brazen BFF is so bold, brash and fearless that her naughty behavior threatens to get you both in deep trouble.’

‘Is he going to be this brazen, this bold all the time?’

‘The brazen birds are becoming bolder by the year, encouraged by litter from takeaway meals and thoughtless people who throw them food.’

‘The book is subtitled ‘bold females and their brazen acts.’’

‘While child abduction is nothing new, the perpetrators are becoming bolder and more brazen.’

‘But the only man she was concerned about stood bold and brazen in front.’

‘Each time P. would try to apply a layer within paw's reach Cindy would swat at the tube as if to say, ‘No human of mine is going out looking like a brazen hussy.’’

‘Of course, Carole was ignored, the brazen hussy!’

‘I mean, my standards weren't set too high as I knew her acting ability was probably limited to playing a brazen hussy with a deep voice, but still.’

‘The challenge is to win the fight to be ordinary - not to be forced into the role of camp court jesters or brazen sapphic hussies.’

‘The brazen hussy (as Mrs. Chadwick fondly refers to her) then strolls off in search of a stiff drink.’

‘I do not know that, but I know a brazen hussy when I see one.’

‘I won't be surprised if the striking ‘colonels’ have been generously compensated for their brazen defiance of military norms.’

‘The fact that there was a time when a respectable woman could only pop the question herself in one year out of every four, without appearing forward and brazen, is downright amazing.’

‘Here you cannot ignore, barefaced and brazen, the meaning of a ruinous global orthodoxy.’

‘From the first page on, there's a blunt, blatant, even brazen certainty in this work.’

‘How can such brazen defiance of health and safety regulations be tolerated?’

‘No one at Wentworth was brazen enough to make a bold prediction.’

‘Packs of dogs roam the streets of South America - collarless and brazen, unabashedly unneutered.’

‘Emmanuelle scoffed as she met his eyes with brazen defiance.’



2 Made of brass.



Examples: 

‘brazen fire irons’

‘Among the Barcaeans there was a skilled worker in brass who took a brazen shield and, carrying it round within the wall, applied it here and there at places where he thought the workings might be.’

‘In the circuit of the wall are 100 gates, all of brass with brazen lintels.’

‘It provided easy access into the building for the items that both vestries and vandals are fond of: silverware, brassware, bells and brazen censers.’

‘Here, you can find traces of human residences, including a neglected paddy field, collapsed stone walls, and broken nickel silverware and brazen kitchenware.’



2.1 Harsh in sound.



Examples: 

‘the music's brazen chords’

‘This is the first good 60s track we've had, it sounds like a brazen attempt to keep ‘up to date’, fusing beat elements to Shannon's basic unchanging style.’

‘The first movement is full of blistering winds and brazen sounds, as from an ancient, pagan army.’

‘David asked, hoping to make himself sound brazen as he returned the phone to his ear.’

‘It was harsh, brazen, forward, passionate, and abrasive.’

‘At the heel of that brazen din, the bullhorn sounded again - the fishing boats scattered enough that the ferry could squeeze along the length of the pier.’



 Endure an embarrassing or difficult situation by behaving with apparent confidence and lack of shame.



Examples: 

‘there was nothing to do but brazen it out’

‘Of course, if we had brazened it out a bit more people might hardly have noticed.’

‘In some scenes Bond brazens it out, fists flailing or guns blazing, to pick off the enemy, but most of the time greater cunning is needed.’

‘The signs that Mr Molloy was brazening things out meant things were getting better and better for the Opposition.’

‘As one veteran prison officer said: ‘Jamieson is brazening it out but she must be sitting at home this weekend with her fingers crossed that nothing else goes wrong.’’

‘You were under the influence of a violent and controlling man, but you have shown no remorse - you brazened the trial out.’

‘He was forced into an admission, including the use of 2,000 prepaid envelopes to send out the forgery, and hoped to brazen things out with an apology.’

‘Yet I imagine he'll brazen it out like all those other high-flyers schmoozed by employee benefit consultants into thinking like supermodels.’

‘I'm not sure I'd be as confident in my abilities - or at least in my ability to brazen it out when I was wrong.’

‘Is anyone in this Government prepared to take political responsibility for what has occurred or are they simply going to brazen it out as normal?’

‘But whether they choose to brazen it out or humbly confess, sue for libel or live like a recluse, there is little the disgraced can do to stop the frisson of pleasure we feel at their discomfort.’

‘There was no escaping it - I would have to brazen it out.’

‘He had only one option - to brazen it out and hope that, like Benedict Arnold, he would survive.’

‘The government is short of cash and will likely brazen it out.’

‘The alternative is to brazen it out and relish the impact you make.’

‘If he's prepared to brazen it out with the handbag, why not with the geek pie?’

‘She was talking too loudly, brazening it out, but since she wouldn't talk about what was really bothering her, there wasn't anything I could do.’

‘But anyone with a friend or relative in the US, and an inclination to do so, will blithely continue to brazen it out with the traffic law enforcers.’

‘They just decide to brazen it out and here am I left out in the cold.’

‘It was clear that she was trying to brazen it out, but it wasn't entirely working.’

‘In one way, you might argue, if what was involved was unimportant - a parking ticket or whatever - the instinctive knee-jerk reaction to cover it up, to brazen it out was peripheral enough in the great scheme of things.’



Related Forms: 

unbrazen, adjective
unbrazenly, adverb
brazenly, adverb
unbrazenness, noun
brazenness, noun



French: 

 effronté, impudent
 de cuivre (jaune), de laiton
 cuivré
 il vaalloir que tu t'en tires par desanfaronnades



14. Impetuous

1 Acting or done quickly and without thought or care.



Examples: 

‘she might live to rue this impetuous decision’

‘But this administration seems intent on doing it in the most reckless, foolhardy and impetuous manner possible.’

‘Surely, a matter of the leader of the party is too serious for an impetuous decision to be made and later taken back in the twinkling of an eye.’

‘They say he is too impetuous, too rash, too impulsive.’

‘Beware of making rash judgments and impetuous commitments.’

‘He added that taking the car had been an impetuous and unplanned crime.’

‘It had been an impetuous and unplanned crime and he knew he had driven appallingly.’

‘He quickly apologized, but the rather impetuous soldier demanded that the matter be settled in a sword duel.’

‘Unfortunately, this wasn't any bold declaration of reckless, impetuous love, it's a last-ditch attempt to not get deported.’

‘Over and over again, Peter came face-to-face with his impetuous, rash nature, and every time he had to confront his inability to change.’

‘The reformist troops weren't rash or impetuous enough to do something so drastic without direct orders.’

‘As you make decisions, think about the difference between being spontaneous and being impetuous.’

‘At this stage in a man's growth, the fiery, impetuous impulses of his youth have given way to a more balanced and thoughtful view.’

‘He said the advent of welfare-managers and player-managers was a huge advance in football, because it shielded impetuous teenagers from their own rash decisions.’

‘The slightly longer answer is to be more decisive, more impetuous and, in some areas, less of a perfectionist.’

‘Three months later I received the news that he had gone on holiday in Greece, saw somebody in difficulty swimming off a treacherous part of the coast, and in his generous and impetuous way had rushed in to save them.’

‘They are extremely responsive to romantic attention, which is very gratifying to their ever-hungry ego, and as such they can suffer from rash romantic liaisons that are impetuous and unsuitable on a long term basis.’

‘The US singer/songwriter captivates a varied audience, everyone from the young and impetuous to the old and contemplative, the broke to (especially right now) the wealthy.’

‘Caught in a maelstrom of sensations, I hardly noticed impetuous spring turn into raging summer, blazing heat into the balanced temperature of fall.’

‘She is impetuous, often acting with little self control or regard for the consequences of her actions.’

‘And third, passion can make someone impetuous; here its victory over reason is so powerful that the latter does not even enter into the arena of conscious reflection until it is too late to influence action.’



1.1 Moving forcefully or rapidly.



Examples: 

‘an impetuous but controlled flow of water’

‘Standing on the bank of a canal together with other joyful dwellers of a clay town, the guardsman was watching the impetuous flow, a broad smile on his face.’



Related Forms: 

impetuousness, noun
impetuousness or impetuosity (ɪmˌpɛtjʊˈɒsɪtɪ), noun
impetuously, adverb



French: 

 impétueux



15. Permeate

 Spread throughout (something); pervade.



Examples: 

‘the aroma of soup permeated the air’

no object ‘his personality has begun to permeate through the whole organization’

‘No matter where you wandered the aroma of garlic permeated the air.’

‘An awful stench filled the stuffy air of the wet alleyway, which permeated my nostrils.’

‘His scent, the faint musk of ivory soap mingled with the clean heaven air, permeated my senses.’

‘Its refreshing fragrance filled the car and permeated our clothes.’

‘The light fragrance permeating the autumn air will make you feel intoxicated.’

‘Even though they didn't quite have the freshly baked bread or the smell of coffee permeating the air, we took the bait.’

‘In fact, the rich-poor disparity permeates every aspect of students' lives.’

‘Most visibly of all, it permeates every line and curve of their art.’

‘There is a realism and a patience which permeates the camp.’

‘It's wry humour that permeates the tale rather than bitterness.’

‘This question of implicit knowledge permeates all branches of the field.’

‘Once again, praise was specific for the good pastoral care that permeates the school and the good parish and community links.’

‘In this statement you see the ambition which now permeates the club.’

‘A writer has to grow with the twists and turns of history, with the vitality that permeates life.’

‘In these situations, the smell of stale sweat and charcoal smoke permeates the thick air.’

‘It permeates every corner of Northern Irish society, often unseen but nigh impossible to evade.’

‘The idea that education permeates every aspect of life seems to have fallen by the wayside.’

‘He is emblematic of the good fun and sense of community that permeates this weekly event.’

‘The positivity that permeates this stadium is fast becoming the most surreal thing of all.’



Related Forms: 

unpermeating, adjective
permeative, adjective
unpermeative, adjective
nonpermeative, adjective
permeation, noun
permeator, noun
unpermeated, adjective
nonpermeation, noun



French: 

 se répandre dans
 s'infiltrer dans
 le plancher était imprégné or gorgé d'humidité
 se répandre dans, se propager à travers
  envahir,   emplir
 ses romans sont empreints d'une mélancolie profonde
  se répandre, se diffuser
  se répandre
 iltrer
  se répandre,   se propager



16. Aggregate

1 A whole formed by combining several separate elements.



Examples: 

‘the council was an aggregate of three regional assemblies’

‘In fact, you do not find any ‘self,’ and so you come to know that neither the whole aggregate of form nor any part of it is the self.’

‘According to Leibniz, the whole world is an aggregate of monads.’

‘Because each record represented a separate loan, aggregates of multiple loans were matched with individual social security numbers.’

‘These objects remain largely as they have always been, an aggregate of separate dust grains and frozen water, loosely held together.’

‘Goffs broke all records for both turnover and average at its premier Orby and Challenge sales with the combined aggregate passing the £39 million barrier.’

‘The sinks are fabricated from a refined polyester resin composite containing a combination of natural and synthetic aggregates, the manufacturer says.’

‘For neither in any one single thing, nor in the whole aggregate and series of things, can there be found the sufficient reason of existence.’

‘Its perceptual configurations have been thought to have a special relevance to the emergence of formal artistic qualities which cannot be reduced to a measurable aggregate of more elementary constituents.’

‘Rather, economists argue that at the margin, the more costly it is to engage in an activity, the less it will be undertaken particularly when dealing with aggregates of separate actions.’

‘Except as noted below, data on all cause and cause specific child and infant mortality and of age distribution of child and infant mortality were regional estimates or other aggregates.’

‘Human organs are complex aggregates of cells and tissues, and it is possible that concentrations of trace elements vary among the various aggregates.’

‘What will be our relationship with the institutions that bundle aggregates of electronic journals for distribution to libraries?’

‘The pattern is seen first as aggregates to assemble in the mind, information acquired bit by bit, as in reality.’

‘Children, given the opportunity, will naturally assemble a personalized aggregate of intelligences needed to approach a learning situation.’

‘Space is also not an aggregate of its parts but presumably an essential whole preceding all it parts, a view motivated at least in part by theological considerations.’

‘A culture is in reality an aggregate of individuals, not an abstract whole to be subdivided into groups, and Eliot was one hell of an individual.’

‘The judges will still rank every performer, and that the aggregate of their ranking will be combined with the public vote to determine who goes and who stays every week.’

‘The goal of analyzing and interpreting data is to reduce the enormous amount of raw data that have been collected to a manageable aggregate.’



1.1 The total score of a player or team in a fixture comprising more than one game or round.



Examples: 

‘he set the pace with a one-over-par aggregate of 151’

mass noun ‘the result put the sides level on aggregate’

‘On their way to the 1991 African Cup Winners Cup triumph over BCC Lions of Nigeria, Power beat Rivatex 4-3 on aggregate in the first round.’

‘Freuberg won 4-0 to advance 4-2 on aggregate to the third round.’

‘With five minutes to go the score was 6-4 and the teams were level on aggregate.’

‘Barcelona are now totally in charge, with the scores level on aggregate and two away-goals to their credit.’

‘Indeed, the cynical may argue that in winning each of their last four games by less than a single score and an aggregate of a mere 14 points, Wharfedale are struggling at the top!’

‘They had lost the first leg 5-1 and went behind early in the second leg before scoring eight goals to win 9-7 on aggregate with the whole team sharing the match award.’

‘It was Nelson who took the title for the best aggregate gross score, although their 296 total was matched by Burnley and the host club.’

‘It was extra time and 2-2 on aggregate when they flashed a footballing épée, scored twice without making a sound and left Tony Adams and Co dazed and confused.’

‘Surprisingly only finished second to Switzerland, before beating Wales 1-0 on aggregate in a nervy play-off.’

‘After finishing second to Bulgaria in their qualifying group, Croatia beat Slovenia 2-1 on aggregate in a Balkan play-off.’

‘England did not enter in 1960, the first tournament and were beaten 6-3 on aggregate by France in the first round of the 1964 competition.’

‘The Dinamo Kiev striker scored the winner against Turkey in the play off first leg and then got the vital equaliser in Istanbul to level the scores on the night and put Latvia ahead on aggregate.’

‘The win, their eighth in 10 matches this month, was worth three points as they tacked on the bonus for winning on aggregate over the home and away fixtures.’

‘Four minutes later, Singapore scored to level the tie on aggregate.’

‘Interestingly, despite their team being 6-1 down on aggregate, Bayer Leverkusen's fans have not stopped singing and chanting since the match began.’

‘After beating the Swedes 4-0 on aggregate, the team is now mixing with the powerhouse clubs in what looks like the strongest field ever assembled.’

‘The Hungarians equalised late in the game, and went through 4-2 on aggregate after a 3-1 home win a fortnight later.’

‘Zesco who are yet to concede a goal earned the second round berth after eliminating PAS Mates 4-0 on aggregate.’

‘They beat a Lions side which barely put up a fight; this is the weakest Australian side for many years; and a Springboks side still in transition came very close indeed to beating them in New Zealand and won the two games on aggregate.’

‘The burton and Milnthorpe clubs are separated only by the aggregate on completion of the first half of the season in the South Lakeland Rural League.’



2 A material or structure formed from a mass of fragments or particles loosely compacted together.



Examples: 

‘the specimen is an aggregate of rock and mineral fragments’

‘Soil particles are bound together into aggregates and these influence the precise pore structure of the soil.’

‘Polysaccharides help form humus, which enables small clay or silt particles to stick together to form larger aggregates.’

‘Marcasite, when viewed in hand specimen, tends to form crudely banded masses or massive aggregates.’

‘The fine sand and silt size fraction comprised decayed plant material, pollen, occasional chitin fragments, clay aggregates, diatoms and fine silicates.’

‘Plus, they excrete sticky compounds that glue soil particles into aggregates, keeping the soil open and porous.’

‘It encourages microorganism activity causing soil particles to clump together and form aggregates.’

‘Malachite is also well known as loosely coherent aggregates and. as thin green films and stains.’

‘The crystals were yellow-brown aggregates of needle-shaped structures that simulated haystacks.’

‘If the platelets are not separated, it is unlikely that the shear forces generated during the compounding process will be sufficient to overcome the forces holding the aggregates together.’

‘The simulations predict loose aggregates of particles with many branches in a complex network, like a portion of a spider's web.’

‘Temper carbon - compact aggregates or nodules of graphite found in malleable iron as a result of heat treatment.’

‘According to Brownlee, the loose aggregate of particles seen on comets may represent the first generation of solids in the solar system.’

‘The material inside the skull is an aggregate of clay-sized chloritic material and is a treasure trove of minerals.’

‘Therefore, the stable structure of the aggregate is not needed to determine its mechanical properties.’

‘Underfoot irregular, pebbles lay like aggregate and chips of stone protruded from the compacted ground, as desiccated and brittle as human bone.’

‘So I could infer the general composition of that… aggregate clump by the fireplace, but I'll be switched if I know its point of origin.’

‘These actin nucleation sites lead to the formation of large aggregates due to charge shielding between actin monomers in the aggregate and monomers in the bulk.’

‘The stability of an aggregate will depend on the number of vesicles in the aggregate and on the energy per vesicle.’



2.1 Pieces of broken or crushed stone or gravel used to make concrete and in building.



Examples: 

‘use aggregate for the first layer when filling the trench’

‘But recovered concrete can be crushed and used as road gravel or aggregate.’

‘Brits also appear to have an long term fascination with types of paving surfaces, so you could find yourself tripping on stone, brick, aggregate, concrete, rock or blocks.’

‘The original structural system, including the roof, was entirely cast-in-place reinforced concrete using normal-weight aggregate.’

‘Aggregates are concrete and other materials sorted, crushed and mixed so as to form mixed aggregate in pieces of 70 mm, or less, in diameter.’

‘Concrete marble aggregate is one of its key components with 57 white columns, each weighing 29 tonnes, forming the structure of the building.’

‘Dawnus provided machines to prepare the site and supplied concrete, aggregate, timber and manpower.’

‘The funding was a result of a Government tax levied on every tonne of stone aggregate extracted from quarrying.’

‘He started work just after 8am and had been helping to unload stones and aggregate in large bags from a ship's hold.’

‘When mixed with fine aggregate used in concrete, these cements reportedly achieve strengths up to 14,000 psi.’

‘The serene, cave-like space is defined by floors of smooth grey Italian stone and walls of ground faced concrete block with black aggregate and charcoal mortar.’

‘Stone tile, a relatively affordable alternative to stone, is made from real stone aggregate suspended in a polymer binder.’

‘Assuming that the concrete has good aggregate to begin with, enduring freezing and thawing is the primary durability issue.’

‘The panels, which are to be made of concrete and limestone aggregate, will create horizontal bands of shadows on the exterior.’

‘Britain used to have a healthy stable of big concrete, aggregate and cement groups, from Blue Circle to Tarmac and RMC.’

‘All these trucks turn up at about 4 o'clock in the afternoon with gravel and sand and aggregate, wanting to dump it.’

‘Pots were filled with building aggregate (referred to as ‘sand’) by hand and stones over about 1 cm in length were removed during pot filling.’

‘Old concrete that has reached the end of its service life can be recycled and reused as aggregate for new concrete mixtures.’

‘The Guardian this week reported a plan to recruit 900 construction workers from Jamaica to fill a local shortage, and also a shortage of local aggregate to mix with cement in making concrete.’

‘A contract to rebuild a stretch of the A5087 on Rampside Road in Barrow is a pilot scheme in which recycled glass is mixed in with the stone aggregate normally used in the lower layers of the road.’

‘Block/concrete brick are manufactured using Portland cement, aggregate, sand, and water.’



1 Formed or calculated by the combination of several separate elements; total.



Examples: 

‘the aggregate amount of grants made’

‘Nevertheless, the results suggest that it would be of biotechnological interest to separate the aggregate subclasses and use the lower complexity aggregates in refolding protocols.’

‘He asked them to determine whether there were any separate or aggregate health issues that would mean General Pinochet was unfit to stand trial in Spain.’

‘This aggregate amount represents an increase of 25 per cent in Commonwealth Government funding to those three categories of schools.’

‘The payment period is for 25 years, or when the aggregate amount has been collected, whichever comes first.’

‘Their parting present to SE was to increase the aggregate amount which it could legally have outstanding from £2bn to £3bn.’

‘Of course this is not all bad; among other things, it will greatly increase variety, the aggregate amount of information, and the entertainment value of actual choices.’

‘Why not, in addition to accelerating the promised development assistance, increase the aggregate amount of aid by the next summit in 2003?’

‘The issue was for an aggregate amount of Rs 100 crore and was rated ‘AAA’ by Crisil.’

‘The aggregate amount of loans also picked up drastically, from 7.3 billion leva to 11.1 billion leva.’

‘Your children may receive an aggregate amount of gifts and inheritances to the value of 456,438 from their parents, free from Irish tax.’

‘The aggregate amount of these claims, calculated as at July 31, 1992 was approximately $5,165,000.’

‘For the whole period, the 47 transactions had an aggregate transaction amount, in Canadian dollars, of $3,986, 351.’

‘We think you will agree therefore that the test is whether the aggregate amount of rent payable during the year commencing 12 April 1983 exceeded two thirds of the rateable value of the property on that date.’

‘The only limit which it imposes is not upon the court's assessment of the damages but upon the aggregate amount that the plaintiff can recover by execution under any of the judgments.’

‘The aggregate amount of the assessed tax was £1, 245, 545 plus interest.’

‘From the aggregate data, we calculated the overall rates of frequencies of patient identification and vital sign monitoring.’

‘Registering trustees are required to report the aggregate amount of funds under supervision and the names of the trusts.’

‘The ATL companies would pay an aggregate amount of £7.5 million to various BTL company creditors.’

‘Satanjib Dutta of Cotton College has topped the final list this year, with letter marks in six subjects and total aggregate marks of 439.’

‘Frisvold, Tronstad, and Mortensen use a different modeling approach to calculate aggregate welfare changes from the introduction of Bt cotton in the same period.’



1.1 (of a group of species) comprising several very similar species formerly regarded as a single species.



Examples: 

‘Rifai (1969) adopted the concept of aggregate species, and distinguished nine species aggregates, and admitted that some of them (particularly T. hamatum) likely contain two or more morphologically indistinguishable species.’

‘If treated as a variety of the aggregate species D. intermedia, the New Zealand plant must bear the varietal name of norfolkensis, whether it occurs elsewhere or not.’

‘Some chromosomal variation is evident in the New Zealand members of the K. ericoides complex, which helps to support the recognition of additional taxa within this aggregate species.’

‘In the case of the Poa secunda aggregate, to recognize 45 "small species" is unrealistic.’

‘Dandelions are so hard to identify that many botanists will record them as the aggregate.’



1.2 Denoting the total supply or demand for goods and services in an economy at a particular time.



Examples: 

‘The notion that economies, as a whole, sometimes lack sufficient drive derives from a faulty set of economic doctrines that focus on the demand side of the aggregate economy.’

‘What we have mostly, to this day, are single-market analyses, or aggregate models of the entire economy, such as the monetary models used today’

‘Sichel, however, shows that even the growing share of the service sector is not enough to substantially raise measurement errors for the aggregate economy.’

‘For all of their conceptual and measurement problems, economic aggregate measures are the best means we have for understanding the economy.’

‘For this reason, other economists, such as the authors of the UN Human Development Report, routinely exclude China from aggregate data covering developing nations.’



1 Form or group into a class or cluster.



Examples: 

with object ‘socio-occupational groups aggregate men sharing similar kinds of occupation’

no object ‘the butterflies aggregate in dense groups’

‘It will enable the Government to fudge things much more because the output classes can be aggregated with this legislation.’

‘Sensor nodes are aggregated to form clusters based on their power levels and proximity.’

‘Yet aggregating the collective wisdom and putting a probability on it is a very valuable function in itself.’

‘These posts are then aggregated or collected into another weighty post, which itself might have the potential to push forward the debate.’

‘Rather than looking at distributing a bunch of applications across a bunch of processors and aggregating unused compute power, Powerllel focuses on the application itself.’

‘Blackbirds seem to maximize that benefit by aggregating their nests in dense colonies.’

‘The fruit is dehiscent, woody, aggregated in bunches and generally contains two seeds.’

‘Of course democracy can be seen as a mechanism for aggregating diverse views about both facts and values; and Habermas offers a distinctive account of democracy.’

‘Then he began poring over tax forms from various conservative nonprofits and aggregating the data about fund-raising and expenditures.’

‘Whatever else they are, general elections are a mechanism for aggregating the preferences of millions of people in a way that determines which party gets to form the government of the country.’

‘Erik Gartzke, a Columbia University professor, says such markets are ‘very good at aggregating information.’’

‘It is not a system for aggregating information and reaching a rational decision about what we should do - it is a system for moderating conflicting interests.’

‘He appears convincing by aggregating voluminous references without subjecting himself to the rigours of the scientific process.’

‘These markets work their magic, he argues, by aggregating a great deal of information from as many sources as possible.’

‘While the Command Post was about aggregating information, Strengthening The Good is about amplifying awareness.’

‘Of course, these are headline-level statistics, aggregating sectors and occupations.’

‘Markets have consistently beat the alternatives at aggregating information.’

‘Let's start off by aggregating all the possible insights about a given subject from all the weblogs that specifically refer to it.’

‘Yahoo needs to do consider doing something about aggregating news under a subject or topic areas.’

‘We've aggregated several different polls over the last couple of years.’



1.1 Collect (related items of content) so as to display or link to them.



Examples: 

‘tools that aggregate data from all of the security devices are a good first step’

‘The RPR network aggregates the packet traffic from around the ring onto one or more highly concentrated links connecting to the network edge.’

‘For the best performance, large numbers of drives can be connected and their data aggregated into a larger host interface.’

‘The standardized format makes it easier to collect business information at multiple points in the business process and easily aggregate data elements into meaningful business information.’

‘The old Information Access Company aggregates periodical articles in databases and has always been an intrinsically online company.’



 In total; as a whole.



Examples: 

‘10,000 tonnes in aggregate’

‘The rich are probably getting richer but the poor are also doing a little better, on the whole and in the aggregate.’

‘You've got winners and losers - but in aggregate it's a total myth to say the industry is fabulously profitable.’

‘But, if a company is a legal person, and the knowledge of its officials is its knowledge, can that knowledge be aggregated and, in the aggregate, constitute the mens rea for a crime?’

‘The reason that aggregate profit does not decline is that, in the aggregate, total sales revenues and total productive expenditures, or costs, remain the same.’

‘Human capital consists of the skills possessed by individuals and, in the aggregate, by the labor force as a whole.’

‘The welfare losses by this small group of consumers can be large enough that, in aggregate, there is a total welfare loss to consumers.’

‘Is that on the theory that subdivided land in aggregate is worth more than the whole lot?’

‘Whatever better rate of return can be had from investing Social Security funds in private securities can be had by investing them in the aggregate rather than in millions of private accounts.’

‘In aggregate, Irish banks have delivered average compound earnings growth of 12% over the past five years.’

‘In aggregate, the collection attests to the founders' faith in multiple forms of evidence as the reservoir from which keener perspectives about the past would be drawn.’



Related Forms: 

subaggregate, adjective, noun
subaggregately, adverb
aggregately, adverb
aggregative (ˈæɡrɪˌɡeɪtɪv), adjective
aggregately, adjective
aggregable  [ag-ri-guh-buhl] /ˈæg rɪ gə bəl/, adjective
aggregatory  [ag-ri-guh-tawr-ee, -tohr-ee] /ˈæg rɪ gəˌtɔr i, -ˌtoʊr i/, adjective
aggregateness, noun
unaggregated, adjective



French: 

 ensemble  m, total  m
 dans l'ensemble, globalement
 gagner au total des points
 agrégat  m
 global, total
  rassembler
 s'élever à, se monter à



17. Deride

 Express contempt for; ridicule.



Examples: 

‘the decision was derided by environmentalists’

‘So I didn't ridicule or deride contributions, and published most emails critical of me, my style, and my substance.’

‘It has been derided by some critics as straying too far from historical fact in order to show a well-polished fiction.’

‘Scotland's newest soap opera has had a shaky start, derided by the critics for its wooden scripts and dull characters.’

‘Some critics have derided his work as dumbed-down and self-aggrandising.’

‘Critics have derided the event as perpetuating a ‘tartan and shortbread’ image.’

‘Long derided by critics, he has fought artistic battles before.’

‘Will the inane chatter so derided by blogging critics start to dry up?’

‘The painter proved once again yesterday that, while critics might deride it, the public can't get enough of his work.’

‘Four years ago, they were derided for raising proposals to decriminalise cannabis.’

‘Do you get tired of being derided and dismissed by many mainstream environmental leaders?’

‘The other parties have derided the proposal as a plan for a ‘fantasy island’.’

‘For centuries women like me have been derided, scorned and ostracised.’

‘It is certainly not a quality that should be derided or dismissed as trite - it can be studied, and it can be learned.’

‘These questions are not meant to mock or deride anyone's beliefs.’

‘He would mock and deride them relentlessly, not stopping until they cried.’

‘The worst thing you could do would be to laugh at him or deride him.’

‘Critics deride him as a publicity hound and his combative character has alienated fellow lawyers in previous class actions.’

‘Wall Street has derided the decision to merge, giving the boards of both companies a sharp surprise.’

‘How can I recommend a film that is not only ridiculed by most fans, but also derided by most of the stars of the film?’

‘Many food trends have come and gone since she became famous, and she remained unmoved, deriding the anti-butterfat lobby and other bores.’



Related Forms: 

deridingly, adverb
derider, noun
underided, adjective



French: 

 tourner en dérision,   railler



18. Apathy

 Lack of interest, enthusiasm, or concern.



Examples: 

‘widespread apathy among students’

‘Another reason for voter apathy is a lack of confidence in politicians.’

‘He also signalled the need for politicians to combat public apathy by re-establishing trust.’

‘The apathy and lack of compassion he describes, are also present in our own US health care system.’

‘That chasm is reflected as well in the widespread apathy of the public toward the election.’

‘The issue of student apathy has been tossed around a lot this past couple weeks.’

‘It was a dismal campaign characterised by public apathy and political evasiveness.’

‘In this day and age of political apathy, there's at least one group I respect.’

‘Politicians blame the public for their apathy at election times but the public think it is the other way round.’

‘There is a lot of apathy and some residents are only just beginning to realise how much it will affect them.’

‘She came to see me at a local clinic and I was very concerned about her, particularly her very marked apathy.’

‘So far, however, they have not been able to rouse their compatriots from their apathy.’

‘I find it very difficult not to sink into a state of apathy when watching that, because it's the same day after day.’

‘Despondency and political apathy are not characteristic of people in the grip of nationalist zeal.’

‘Indeed there does appear to be a great deal of apathy up until this weekend when a number of people attended a march in London.’

‘A project which aims to shape a rural community for future generations has met with apathy, says a group.’

‘However, we must also look at how much apathy there is within our community towards local politicians.’

‘The reason people stay at home is apathy, cultivated by a belief they won't be listened to by the powers that be.’

‘I was reading about voter apathy, particularly amongst the young, the other day.’

‘This shows apathy on the part of the Government to the problems of the common man.’

‘We may not be able to institute change, but apathy is the death of all dialogue and debate.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 apathie , indifférence 



19. Garble

 Reproduce (a message, sound, or transmission) in a confused and distorted way.



Examples: 

‘the connection was awful and kept garbling his voice’

‘His voice sounds somewhat garbled in those recordings.’

‘He called, his voice garbled by the sound of hammering and drilling.’

‘Canadian voters spoke but, once again, the voting system garbled the message.’

‘The message was somewhat garbled, and the three men in question were still 24 hours from Tulsa, but the threat was taken seriously by the FBI, who called in the local police.’

‘Connor's transmission was very garbled, but the seriousness of the situation was clear to all listening.’

‘You try to talk to a fellow shopper, but your words sound garbled, and others seem confused by your speech.’

‘He told the inquest the message was garbled and he couldn't understand any of it.’

‘Once again the mixed message is more garbled than ever: it's okay to be independent, but beware of those you think you trust.’

‘If this was the case, it is strange that the message was so garbled - no clear understanding of BT's thinking emerged until after the first reports of a boardroom bust-up.’

‘On windy days, the smoke was wafted so that signals became garbled and confusing.’

‘The funny bit is that the spam protection they are offering is just a bit of JavaScript that garbles email addresses so they cannot be harvested.’

‘Often the message becomes garbled as it filters through several languages.’

‘Once, we could understand everything he said with perfect clarity, but now, everything is garbled and sometimes even slurred.’

‘You implant a patient, and initially all they hear is garbled noise, and in six months they can carry on a conversation on the telephone.’

‘The interrogator began speaking through an intercom, his voice garbled in static.’

‘After waking up, her speech was garbled and she was confused.’

‘That was rather garbled and hastily thrown together, but we will return with him.’

‘His lawyers protested, claiming that this would hamper their ability to ask follow up questions or to clarify points that might be garbled through translators.’

‘Even then, you can expect anything other than the simplest bullets to be garbled.’

‘The result will be calls where your voice will be broken up and garbled.’



 A garbled account or transmission.



Examples: 

‘most readers assumed the word was a typographical garble’

mass noun ‘upon winning a race a driver spews out a litany of commercial garble’

‘Repeated attempts to contact the Sol System have been met only with static and nonsensical garbles.’

‘On the surface, the Violettes' debut album follows a well-tested formula for soundscape pop: her delicate voice soaks in a bath of fuzzy guitars, droning cello, and the garble of vocal samples run backward.’

‘Language is employed as a formative element of the rhythm and music, but all a garble of German phrases, English sentence fragments, hissing, and hiccuping.’

‘Started in Portland in 1999, their self-titled debut was incapable of prodding you into these visions, these half-lucid garbles of thought and imagination.’

‘I plowed through this text in my bedroom late at night, while the unintelligible garble of the downstairs television kept me abreast of my parents' assured position in front of it.’

‘At first, she thought that her voice had come out in an unintelligible garble, but she finally realized that the reason for their mirth was coming from behind her, out the window.’

‘His widely mocked garble about him taking his ‘high horse’ on the ‘low road’ is actually, with a bit of untangling, a pretty good image.’

‘It may have been Shakespeare fatigue, but the scene between Falstaff and Doll Tearsheet, played as a strung-out Eastender with Blade Runner hair, was for significant periods pure garble, to be endured rather than enjoyed.’

‘That wonderful pattern-matching ability I've mentioned elsewhere comes into being and forces us to turn garble into sense, any sense, even if it's nonsense.’

‘DataCore, to be sure, doles out the same virtualization garble as every other vendor, promising a management heaven full of automation and abstracted disk.’

‘While the musical numbers do sound great, there are periods where the vocals could have been cleaned up to eliminate moments of muted garble.’

‘Why I was rambling a spew of unintelligible garble, I had not a clue.’

‘She waited patiently for the caller to reply but all she got was garble from the other end.’

‘The about section of her web site is full of fanciful garble about her consulting work.’



Related Forms: 

ungarbled, adjective
garbler, noun
garbleable, adjective



French: 

  embrouiller
  déformer
  dénaturer,   déformer



20. Scorne

Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



21. Eminent

1 (of a person) famous and respected within a particular sphere.



Examples: 

‘one of the world's most eminent statisticians’

‘Nevertheless, it is very prestigious, and is often awarded to eminent people in the sciences and arts.’

‘Here are some excerpts from the opinions expressed by some eminent personalities.’

‘These four participants will then be sent to Mumbai for training and will be groomed by eminent people in the film industry.’

‘The chance to travel through time is something that has occupied the minds of many eminent people for generations.’

‘Perhaps they keep quite quiet about the fact they advise me on a regular basis, but a lot of them are very eminent people in their own areas.’

‘To find answers this programme gathered together a group of eminent people from a variety of backgrounds.’

‘The acclaimed filmmaker has adapted several works of eminent writers.’

‘Moreover, many eminent scientists do not believe this context to be important.’

‘We do not accept or proclaim any view merely because it comes from an eminent personality.’

‘A group of eminent scientists from around the world have voted Blade Runner the best science fiction movie of all time.’

‘It was also patronised by eminent artists, musicians and intellectuals.’

‘According to King's publicist, four eminent doctors were consulted.’

‘I should like to thank this eminent scholar and friend for his valuable contribution to the debate on this issue.’

‘Is it also a rather shrewd and pertinent analysis by one of Britain's most eminent leaders?’

‘And it has won praise from some of this country's most eminent musicians.’

‘He sent them a work of philosophy which, in the eyes of some eminent judges, was perfectly sensible and worthy of publication.’

‘The award is conferred annually on eminent citizens of this textile city.’

‘However eminent a Prime Minister may become, he is always subject to a higher personal authority.’

‘He visited all the Balkan countries, meeting with eminent public figures.’

‘An eminent futurologist predicted many years ago that humans would eventually evolve without legs as we would have no use for them.’

‘It was a grand dinner attended by hundreds of Scotland's most eminent legal figures.’



2 (of a positive quality) present to a notable degree.



Examples: 

‘the book's scholarship and eminent readability’

‘The quality is eminent, but the case does have a fundamental flaw - the lack of cooling.’

‘It does seem an eminent candidate for discreet burial, doesn't it?’



Related Forms: 

quasi-eminent, adjective
noneminent, adjective
uneminently, adverb
eminently, adverb
quasi-eminently, adverb
uneminent, adjective



French: 

 éminent
 éminent, remarquable, insigne



22. Overt

 Done or shown openly; plainly apparent.



Examples: 

‘an overt act of aggression’

‘in untreated cases, overt psychosis may occur’

‘Sometimes a stab is an overt piece of aggression visible for all to see, but there are more subtle ways of achieving the same aims.’

‘We believe that a more rational approach requires the reorganisation or overt restriction of services.’

‘The only exclusion criterion was overt signs of vitamin A deficiency, which was not present in any child.’

‘The question still remained whether treating pressure in overt disease prevents progression.’

‘The submission of the individual to the authority of the group and its representatives is also an overt element.’

‘Prompt treatment within the first 10 days prevents overt coronary damage in most cases.’

‘Surely it can't have been a conspiracy because it was completely open and overt?’

‘Aside from trade sanctions and other non-military acts has been this overt invasion of sovereignty.’

‘Intention is not capable of positive proof, and, accordingly, it is inferred from the overt acts.’

‘Once there is more than one overt act, there is a range of possibilities for sentencing.’

‘It is Archie's first overt act of rebellion against his father, and as such a threshold event in his life.’

‘The End Room was the scene of my most overt act of schoolday rebellion, when I threw a chair at the teacher.’

‘When people are fearful they look to any overt power to act for them but we must remember that we can act for ourselves.’

‘It's not an act of overt hostility like copy-control, but it's still a bit of a con.’

‘Any overt public criticism or disparaging remarks can result in a loss of face and cause extreme embarrassment.’

‘These stories rarely take the form of something blatantly heinous like overt racism.’

‘In fact, politicians hide their inadequacies behind the interviewer's overt aggression.’

‘There was no overt political message because there was no apparent legal validation.’

‘Clinical examination of the wisdom teeth and the x-ray did not show any overt pathology.’

‘That he avoided overt references to modernity was something the public, shy of change, appreciated.’



Related Forms: 

overtness, noun
overtly, adverb
unovert, adjective



French: 

  [əʊˈvɜ:t] manifeste, évident



23. Pervasice

Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



24. Exalt

1 Think or speak very highly of (someone or something)



Examples: 

‘the party will continue to exalt their hero’

‘They always exalt Christ and clearly speak of the preacher's deep spiritual knowledge of his Saviour.’

‘The honeymoon is still in full swing, and the media will continue to exalt him until the first signs that his spree is producing results.’

‘We economists emphasize efficiency over equity, glorify greed, and exalt the achievements of free markets, to name just a few.’

‘The poets exalt you with their hymns - you whose undertakings are ever successful.’

‘We exalt effortless brilliance, we celebrate talent and the achievement that comes easily, naturally.’

‘In both the ruling and opposition camps, there are people who tirelessly exalt political unification and economic integration.’

‘We are talking about people who exalt the effort to preserve slavery.’

‘We dethrone the heroes of the day and exalt new ones in the journals and popular media.’

‘And one should never mention nor hear the mention of the name without adding praise or responding amen to one who exalts God.’

‘Paul's great ‘hymn to love’ in 1 Corinthians exalts love as ‘a still more excellent way.’’

‘It will be worth it in the end - to see God truly glorified, as the gospel, which exalts his Son, is preached and believed.’

‘In several passages, he exalts the American weaponry used in the Balkans, particularly the latest Air Force technology.’

‘In a nutshell, the book exalts the West, capitalism, Christianity, and the creative human spirit.’

‘Mike disses the Latin conception of law and exalts the Anglo-Saxon conception.’

‘Malick exalts the beauty of the land in this exquisitely shot picture, creating a form of visual poetry which is quite simply mesmeric.’

‘Are we to believe that in the rational future, these works will be surpassed by works exalting happiness and denigrating self-sacrifice?’

‘How did the Los Angeles Times, through images, walk a fine line between exalting the order of law and fanning the flames of white hysteria?’

‘This sentimental literature exalted spontaneous and expressive emotion springing directly from the heart.’

‘I walked around listening to whispered words exalting Grandma Edith's prize winning chrysanthemums, how proud she was of her grandkids, especially Rose, for being selected to go to Girl's State when she was a junior in high school.’

‘They always exalt Christ and clearly speak of the preacher's deep spiritual knowledge of his Saviour.’



2 Raise to a higher rank or position.



Examples: 

‘this naturally exalts the peasant above his brethren in the same rank of society’

‘The point here is not to exalt Elisabeth to a position of equal stature.’

‘Those who allow Satan in their temple, declaring humanistic wisdom, are exalting themselves above God and opposing God.’

‘He recently talked with writer Constance C. R. White about the book and about being a Black man in a business that exalts White beauty and talent above all others.’

‘Moreover, the duty of free respect to others is really only a negative one (of not exalting oneself above others) and is thus analogous to the juridical duty of not encroaching on another's possessions.’

‘And it is also imperative to distinguish between patriotism, love of one's country, and nationalism - the exalting of one's nation and its culture and interests above all others.’

‘It is a very disturbing thing, but, in some countries, going to war exalts the status and political popularity of the incumbent leader.’

‘Whether exalting technology over people, or people over technology, we are not moving beyond the binaries that are currently limiting us.’

‘The Bible says in Proverbs 14: 34: ‘Righteousness exalts a nation but sin is a reproach to any people.’’

‘Behaviorism has long justified itself by a philosophy that exalts prediction and control over theoretical explanation.’

‘Often this is a love devoid of content, that exalts unity over truth to avoid confrontation.’

‘Truly God exalts the humble and cast down the proud.’

‘He has pulled the princes from their thrones and exalted the humble.’

‘Your highness, even with our humble spread, we cannot think to exalt ourselves and sit by your majesty.’

‘Sin always magnifies the wrong thing and tries to exalt what is insignificant.’

‘Isaiah 14 talks about Lucifer wanting to exalt his throne above the throne of God.’

‘God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, that is, Lord.’



2.1 Make noble in character; dignify.



Examples: 

‘romanticism liberated the imagination and exalted the emotions’

‘In the dictionary its meaning is given as lofty, elevated by joy, exalted in character; awakening or expressing an uplifting emotion, producing a sense of elevated beauty, nobility, grandeur, solemnity or awe.’

‘Southern newspapers were rife with editorials exalting Brooks as an honourable southern gentleman who acted appropriately in the defense of his family, home, and ultimately the southern way of life.’

‘It is designed to exalt Christ and glorify him in the minds and hearts of men and women, boys and girls.’



Related Forms: 

unexalting, adjective
exalter, noun
self-exalting, adjective



French: 

  exalter, chanter les louanges de
  élever (à un rang plus important)



25. Lofty

1 Of imposing height.



Examples: 

‘the elegant square was shaded by lofty palms’

‘The 12 girls took to the lofty heights of Lugnaquilla to participate in a sponsored walk in aid of the Special Olympics.’

‘From the lofty heights of Neiphin Mountain, you can view the landscape from Keenagh all the way to Easkey.’

‘Giant yellow-poplars are remarkable for their lofty heights and barely tapering columnar shapes.’

‘‘It's creepy,’ whispered Taffle, looking upwards to the halls' lofty heights.’

‘Barely anyone valued the river, preferring instead to live at lofty heights that kissed the clouds, so I had been able to rent a small apartment overlooking the Effenlie.’

‘I believe that this is because their view of society is as indistinct as the view of the street below from the lofty heights of a high-rise building.’

‘She put a hand on her hip, looking down at me from her lofty height.’

‘Ah, to be with those who first gazed on those lofty heights - that was golden mountaineering.’

‘Our lights barely reached the top of this dramatically sculpted abyss, and we sat in awe for a good ten minutes just peering up into its lofty heights.’

‘Yet the ballroom's lofty wood-panelled ceiling and tall seaward windows, along with an adjoining dining hall and arcaded veranda, do evoke another more gracious age.’

‘From his lofty perch atop the tallest pine at the highest point of Drangle pass, Forlon surveyed the peaceful terrain with satisfaction.’

‘The great hall at Union Station is lofty and magnificent - simply walking through it lifts the spirits.’

‘Daredevil can't shoot industrial strength spider webs or soar between lofty towers.’

‘It is a city rather than a town, that lofty, majestic cathedral ensuring its status.’

‘You still enter a lofty domed hall by a small door set in an imposing gate.’

‘The Berkeley Court Hotel's opulent ballroom with its lofty ceiling, tall mirrors and huge chandeliers offers the perfect backdrop for a glamorous night.’

‘The island boasted a cluster of lofty mountains, the tallest of which the locals named Ice Peak.’

‘Finally, Ms Earle says human rights lawyers must come down from their lofty perches.’

‘There are magnificent views of the whole island from this lofty perch.’

‘The autumn sky is so lofty that I feel like roaming around the heavens.’



1.1 Of a noble or elevated nature.



Examples: 

‘an extraordinary mixture of harsh reality and lofty ideals’

‘The GGA failed to live up to its lofty and noble ideals due largely to the self-serving nature of some of its less progressive members.’

‘It is a world where nobody aspires to anything lofty, noble, or daring, and where nobody must love another when such love is fragile, mysterious, and hard.’

‘A noble and lofty goal, the setup is an interesting one but the actual action is brutally difficult.’

‘The lofty ideal found many spontaneous takers.’

‘Just as every drop makes an ocean, one young man, who feels that it is his duty to strive for world peace, is spreading the lofty ideals of peace and harmony among the common folk.’

‘However, considerable friction arose from the beginning between lofty republican ideals and the lure of distant lands.’

‘The cottage, rebuilt in 1997 in line with the description in the poems, reminds visitors of Du's simple life and lofty ideals.’

‘His actions have distressed the great many journalists who go to pains every day to uphold the lofty ideals of their chosen craft.’

‘It's a lofty ideal and one which will probably remain in the ivory tower of newspaper journalism, but I would add one caveat.’

‘Over the years he admits he has at times strayed from that lofty ideal.’

‘On the one hand it proclaims lofty ideals, and on the other it prevents disclosure.’

‘Gibson's film seems to have less lofty ambitions.’

‘Hopefully, my fortune will assist him in achieving that lofty goal.’

‘To accomplish that lofty goal, Fulham must finish among the top five clubs in the much more competitive league.’

‘I hoped that lofty ambition alone might sneak me through to the finals.’

‘Do they have the same lofty goals and aspirations as able-bodied individuals?’

‘Over the years he admits he has at times strayed from that lofty ideal.’

‘Generation after generation of Americans has understood the lofty ideals that underlie our great Republic.’

‘Some will smirk at such lofty aspirations, calling them silly, if not impossible.’

‘Our religion is too lofty, noble and humane to have such thugs and killers.’



1.2 Haughty and aloof.



Examples: 

‘lofty intellectual disdain’

‘On no account is he an aloof, lofty person, but instead he eats and drinks with the Minjung, sometimes asking favours from them or vice versa, granting their requests.’

‘The conversational performance bar was high - not to any ridiculously lofty intellectual setting, but higher than I am generally used to in the general course of things.’

‘It has inspired essays by France's lofty intellectuals.’

‘In particular, we should aim to follow their example and not let anything stand in the way of lofty intellectual pursuit.’

‘What is occurring in this affair is a soft but highly effective form of modern ‘censorship’, that by lofty disdain and complete disregard.’

‘Unlike their British and American counterparts, French politicians have generally exhibited a lofty disdain for the concept of crafting an image.’

‘Given that organisation's lofty disdain for those of us working in the popular press, it is also very tempting to do so.’

‘Will the Irish media engage, or will it maintain its lofty disdain for the president and his people?’

‘Indeed, the whole of the French governing elite maintained a lofty disdain for the episode.’

‘There is little indication that their parents begrudged them their cultivated and hunting ways provided they evinced lofty intellectual interests.’

‘What you need to cultivate here, as a composer, is an air of lofty disdain for us poor sweat-shop craftspeople down here.’

‘As Kant remarked, this is said in a lofty, disdainful tone, full of the presumption of wanting to reform reason by experience.’

‘In the years after the Second World War, American history, which had been viewed with lofty condescension in most British universities, became an increasingly popular subject.’

‘Unlike some of his predecessors, he never seems lofty or arrogant.’

‘This is her favourite pastime as it escalates her already lofty notions of self-importance.’

‘However, the ITA took a rather lofty and somewhat patronizing view of the abilities of independent producers.’

‘A passionate nativism marched in lock step with a sense of a lofty imperial mission.’

‘Tabloid journalism is a tricky subject: it tends to invite lofty condescension.’



2 (of wool and other textiles) thick and resilient.



Examples: 

‘Because fleece is such a lofty, stretchy fabric, use a 3 mm or 3.5 mm stitch length.’



Related Forms: 

overloftiness, noun
overloftily, adverb
loftiness, noun
loftily, adverb
overlofty, adjective
unlofty, adjective



French: 

 haut, élevé
 hautain, dédaigneux, méprisant
 noble, élevé
 éminent
 élevé, noble



26. Aloft

1 Up in or into the air; overhead.



Examples: 

‘the congregation sways, hands aloft’

‘she held her glass aloft’

‘Jesus held his hand aloft above his eyes, so as to shield his vision from the glare of the sun, and blew wind through his lips.’

‘I was woken, however, by the light of a candle being held aloft above my face, and the sight of Gerald peering down at me anxiously.’

‘Key seemed too dumbfounded at the fusion to do anything more than keep himself aloft above the pool.’

‘Each time the crowd surges, I'm completely off my feet, the pressure of the pack keeping me aloft.’

‘The 5ft-wingspan model could lead to the development of pilotless aircraft that can stay aloft indefinitely.’

‘Our main ‘artwork’ was a flying saucer, to be carried aloft by a giant helium-filled weather balloon.’

‘It's amazing and while in flight, I'm always skeptical that the plane is going to remain aloft.’

‘The teddy bears will be equipped with their own small parachute and harness, and carried aloft by a giant kite - then dropped from a height.’

‘At the end of the service many among the crowd fought back tears as, scarves aloft, they sang the Anfield anthem You'll Never Walk Alone.’

‘Nevertheless, persistence paid off, and man was finally able to soar aloft with improved gliding equipment.’

‘Predictably, her worst critics have come out with Bibles held aloft.’

‘This was the scene when more than 500 staff from Motorola held cards aloft to create a huge red nose as part of a fundraising bid for Comic Relief.’

‘I hoisted aloft an imaginary trophy and waved to the fans.’

‘A man walks by, holding an empty Molson's Canadian beer carton aloft like a flag.’

‘The frail craft, though buffeted by violent winds and sudden air pockets, stayed aloft.’

‘With this, he walked into the water, the hat held aloft so it wouldn't get wet.’

‘I approached the fridge yesterday morning at breakfast with my arm aloft to pluck the box of choice from the cereal Manhattan above.’

‘We hustled to pack up our tables and bags and, holding our tents aloft, started marching.’

‘The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally, but always aloft and free.’

‘The man eventually agreed to come down after more than 16 hours sitting aloft in freezing temperatures and rain.’



1.1 Up the mast or into the rigging of a ship.



Examples: 

‘Tom went aloft with the bosun’

‘If you are thinking about buying a sailboat, ask the surveyor if the rigging will be inspected aloft or from the deck.’

‘He addressed the sailor that was aloft clutching the rigging for dear life.’

‘To have the ship's company clearly visible on deck, or in the days of sail, aloft on the yards, meant that the guns were not manned.’

‘Hornblower was about to return topside when the men from aloft scampered down the companionway.’

‘Once at sea, cast your eyes aloft, there will be a dozen or more sailors swinging about in the rigging adjusting sails.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 en haut, en l'air
 en l'air
 dans la mâture



27. Resolution

1 A firm decision to do or not to do something.



Examples: 

‘she kept her resolution not to see Anne any more’

‘a New Year's resolution’

‘I was told that this - my life right now - was prime time for resolutions, that the decisions I made now would determine every possible outcome of my future.’

‘Today those resolutions, though, still stand.’

‘However, here are suggestions for resolutions for loved ones in my life.’

‘Well, did you keep your new year's resolution or resolutions?’

‘There are a few words, but the plot - a series of episodes, mini - dramas, decisions and resolutions - isn't dependent on them.’

‘From then on, his reading, prayer and entire formation were concentrated on his firm resolution.’

‘I grant, of course, that the firmest resolution can change, but when it changes quickly one is entitled to wonder whether it was a firm resolution.’

‘It's probably the spirit of New Year resolutions doing the rounds, but there seems to be a lot of talk about how many books one can read as against the number of books one wants to read.’

‘The resolution of this decision faded slightly when I saw her, and even more so when I finally stepped into the laundrette and bathed in her smile.’

‘The desire to live in Shanghai firmed her resolution to win the competition for a place with the airline.’

‘But, after a bit of thought I realized that making resolutions is much easier if you do it for other people.’

‘Once the festivities of Christmas and New Year are over, many of us will be turning our thoughts to making resolutions for the year ahead.’

‘Meanwhile, if you have made an unusual New Year's resolution - or have a suggestion of a resolution for someone else - get in touch.’

‘The local people, he said, were more firm in their resolution to end violence and bloodshed.’

‘He stared at me curiously, though behind that curiosity was a firm resolution I had no idea of.’

‘As this is the time of the year for resolutions perhaps a decision to attend the Parents Association meetings would be a good start to 2002.’

‘Some of you may remember my New Year's resolutions and noticed that quite a few of them had something to do with weight loss.’

‘The prosecution must conduct a fair, thorough probe of the scandal under any circumstances with a firm resolution to root out the corrupt ties between politics and business once and for all.’

‘It's also time to make some firm resolutions, ones that you intend, for once, to keep.’

‘When I was duly discharged I made a firm resolution to surrender my subscriptions, which were bleeding my budget with their ridiculously high rates and false promises.’



1.1 A formal expression of opinion or intention agreed on by a legislative body or other formal meeting, typically after taking a vote.



Examples: 

‘the conference passed two resolutions’

‘Last night, the Senate passed, by voice vote, a resolution issuing a formal apology for failing to pass federal anti-lynching laws.’

‘Unlike ordinary resolutions which are decided after taking account the proxy vote and show of hands at the meeting, all 7 resolutions were voted on by a poll.’

‘When the board next meets on January 4, members will vote on a formal resolution to ban smoking in public.’

‘Shareholders will vote on the resolutions at annual meetings this spring.’

‘The meeting overwhelmingly passed a resolution threatening further industrial action if management persisted.’

‘The meeting passed a resolution which supported direct action against the war.’

‘At what was described as a general meeting the 1880 purchase was approved, and a special meeting passed a resolution declaring the trusts.’

‘The campaign says it wants members to vote against a resolution expressing confidence in the managing director.’

‘During the meeting six different resolutions were moved and passed.’

‘To pass, the resolution will need nine votes without a veto from any of the permanent members of the Security Council.’

‘The Council has also increasingly made use of opinions and resolutions as a way of pressuring the Commission into generating legislative proposals.’

‘Activists need to call members' meetings where they pass resolutions calling for escalation of the action.’

‘The resolution passed on a vote of 61 to 14 with 13 abstentions.’

‘They need six more votes to pass the resolution.’

‘The resolution passed by unanimous vote in the subcommittee.’

‘The meeting passed a resolution authorising the party to enter into coalition arrangements with other parties.’

‘Yesterday the legislature passed a resolution demanding that the Cabinet resume building the plant.’

‘The secretary has pointed out repeatedly that all it takes is nine votes to pass a resolution, and he is sure that he has them.’

‘Here the community used to have general meetings and approve resolutions.’

‘There was a dispute at the meeting so the resolution was never passed.’



2 The quality of being determined or resolute.



Examples: 

‘he handled the last British actions of the war with resolution’

‘The victory will depend on courage, resolution, and a determination to defend what we value - leaders are right to remind us of this.’

‘The world is a better place for the removal of his influence, of that I'm certain, but I feel it's a time for grim determination and resolution rather than cheering.’

‘However, on the day, they showed such determination and resolution that nothing could stand between them and victory.’

‘A crucial art of the political leader in a crisis is to mask his own fear with a calming projection to the public of certainty and resolution.’

‘We will not initiate war, but if war is imposed on us, we will defend ourselves with the utmost resolution and determination.’

‘Courage and resolution are the spirit and soul of his virtues.’

‘After the collapse of the market the Federal Reserve System acted with resolution to absorb the shock.’

‘The Civil Commissioners acted with resolution, but they were dogged by the problem of the ultimate legitimacy of their acts.’

‘In general the frontier of Virginia was ravaged less than that of Pennsylvania, because the government of the former acted with resolution and dispatch in raising 1000 militia for defence.’

‘She acted with resolution and looked very cool. This made me realized again that women could be very strong on such occasion.’



3 The action of solving a problem or contentious matter.



Examples: 

‘the peaceful resolution of all disputes’

count noun ‘a successful resolution to the problem’

‘The educator that violently hits his students in order to get them to conform or behave to his liking can surely not lay any claim to teaching of peaceful dispute resolution.’

‘But what we want to see is not the use of force but the peaceful resolution of this matter, and that's in the hands of the Miami relatives.’

‘The UN has never pretended to have a monopoly on the peaceful resolution of disputes.’

‘In large part it has achieved its objectives, especially in promoting a cost-efficient, peaceful resolution of disputes.’

‘Mediation and peaceful resolution of international disputes are again topical.’

‘In such instances, there is an emphasis on the peaceful resolution of the dispute between the parties with reference, as necessary, to the Commission.’

‘I was never completely clear on what it was they expected the government to do, and I don't think there was any real resolution to the matter, which dragged on for quite a while before any new music was released.’

‘It is common these days to see workers resort to strike action at the slightest hint of disagreement during collective bargaining or resolution of any industrial matter.’

‘I assure you the family will be pleased that there's been resolution in the matter.’

‘We believe the key principles of cohesion are collective action, mutual understanding and the peaceful resolution of disputes.’

‘It also settles for the peaceful resolution of conflicts anywhere in the world.’

‘Thus, no matter what may have been previously decided in hearings or by the couple themselves, the divorce court can impart its own resolution on the matter.’

‘The merits of international law and the peaceful resolution of disputes through courts were advanced by that process.’

‘For most perpetual conflicts in marriages, what matters is not conflict resolution, but the attitudes that surround discussion of the conflict.’

‘In recent years, I've been very involved in conflict resolution to solve community problems, which is currently how I earn a living.’

‘Next time these parties meet to hash out national agreements, several contentious issues will need resolution.’

‘Both of these seem to me matters which need resolution, and may not be capable of satisfactory control by conditions.’

‘As president, he saw himself basically as decision maker in chief, the person to whom his aides brought major matters for final resolution.’

‘You said, ‘Democracy… teaches cooperation, the free exchange of ideas, peaceful resolution of differences.’’

‘It was a despicable crime and we are determined to do all that we can over the next few days to bring this to an early successful resolution.’



3.1 The passing of a discord into a concord during the course of changing harmony.



Examples: 

‘tension is released by the resolution from the dominant to the tonic chord’

‘Mindlessly memorizing from the beginning of a phrase or section without analytical awareness of the cadence yields a lack of harmonic direction and resolution.’

‘Traditionally, a musical climax is reached through the emotionally loaded swell of dynamics or harmonic resolution.’

‘The return of the minor mode of the first aria at the conclusion provides dramatic resolution to the work where the poet's deceived heart is inflected with irony.’

‘The intricacy of the music and the audacity of the joint improvisations take the explorations close to the edge, with changes of tempo and harmonies miraculously reaching resolution.’

‘Classical music codas produce the anticipation of resolution.’



3.2 The disappearance of a symptom or condition.



Examples: 

‘complete remission was defined as resolution of clinical evidence of disease’

‘Treatment includes analgesics and physical therapy, with resolution of symptoms usually occurring in three to four months.’

‘Improvement was defined as partial or complete resolution of clinical or subclinical symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy.’

‘An indeterminate outcome was defined as resolution of signs and symptoms of infection with a need for continued antimicrobial suppression.’

‘He had been treated for irritable bowel syndrome without resolution of symptoms.’

‘Combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy resulted in complete resolution of the lesion and a long-term remission of more than 5 years.’



4 The process of reducing or separating something into constituent parts or components.



Examples: 

‘The acetylcholine binding site at atomic resolution has five aromatic amino acids.’

‘However, as these QTL appear to be tightly linked in coupling phase, the combined intercrosses do not provide sufficient resolution to separate the effects.’

‘This improved separation efficiency gives sharper peaks that give better resolution, or faster separations, compared with conventional HPLC separations.’

‘Each resolution process was examined and classified into one of four types.’



4.1 The replacing of a single force or other vector quantity by two or more jointly equivalent to it.



Examples: 

‘The resolution of fluorescence emission spectra into Gaussian components is shown in Figs.3-6.’

‘Bunsen discussed his work on this problem with Kirchhoff, who pointed the way to a method based on the prismatic resolution of the colors of flames into their separate parts.’

‘An optimum radius of the curvature ensuring the best spectral resolution was determined for a nonsymmetric diffractor scheme.’



5 The smallest interval measurable by a telescope or other scientific instrument; the resolving power.



Examples: 

‘The new altitude would multiply the resolution of the measurements that Cassini's instruments could make at Enceladus by a factor of nearly 6.’

‘To measure this region, both the instrument resolution and photon statistics need to be improved.’

‘The effect is due to the limitation of the instrumental resolution regarding the measurement of hydration water large-scale motions.’

‘The resolution of the height measurement is mainly limited by the z-axis noise, which is normally a few tenths of a nanometer under standard imaging conditions.’

‘So for many applications researchers turn to diffraction, which requires a crystal, but can achieve resolutions of a few angstroms or better.’



5.1 The degree of detail visible in a photographic or television image.



Examples: 

‘a high-resolution monitor’

‘The virions on the cell surfaces were imaged at high resolution and considerable detail of the arrangement of protein assemblies on their surfaces was evident.’

‘It's also important to point out that there is a definite need for high resolution (highly detailed) graphics and graphic images.’

‘Depending on your screen resolution, this image is about a third the size of the real thing, which is 700 mm long by 400 mm wide.’

‘A front projection system with LCD projector delivers HDTV resolution for high definition images.’

‘This is about where our own tests ended up, depending on the particular screen resolution and other configuration settings we used.’

‘The best resolution for high definition television, which is also used by the best professional digital video cameras, is 1920x1080.’

‘In addition, the reflective surfaces of the prism are coated with special films to enhance both image contrast and resolution.’

‘Most current studies have relied on imaging methods, which require good contrast for image resolution.’

‘Although not all areas are highly detailed, some images are very high resolution, and some show sensitive locations in various countries.’

‘It offers all manner of options in terms of settings, degrees of resolution, and in-camera viewing of images.’

‘Also the image of the ship was getting a more clear resolution and more detail could be seen.’

‘Scanning at the maximum optical resolution captures as much detail as possible without making your file too large.’

‘Most digital photography requirements will focus on one major element: image resolution.’

‘The more pixels, the higher the image resolution and thus the better the photograph.’

‘In this image, the foreground appears slightly blurred, whereas the rocks further away appear reasonably sharp, considering image resolution.’

‘Even using the smallest screen resolution and the lowest graphics detail I had problems, and I don't understand why.’

‘Image resolution is far from being the only dimension of comparison or even the most important one.’

‘But because a television display resolution is also low, it ought to play many PC games with at least acceptable performance.’

‘The typical goal for optics is to use lenses that produce the sharpest clarity and largest usable image, thus providing the best image resolution.’

‘One frequent stumbling block for beginners is image resolution.’



6 The conversion of something abstract into another form.



Examples: 

‘the gradual resolution of an uncertain feeling into a named emotion’



6.1 The substitution of two short syllables for one long one.



Examples: 

Related Forms: 

resolutioner or resolutionist, noun
nonresolution, noun
preresolution, noun



French: 

 résolution , décision 
 elle a pris la résolution d'arrêter deumer
 résolution 
 ils ont voté/adopté/rejeté une résolution pour limiter le budget
 résolution 
 dire/agir avecermeté
 résolution 
 au cinquième acte, nous assistons au dénouement de la tragédie
 résolution 
 écran  m  à haute résolution
 résolution 



28. Contempt

1 The feeling that a person or a thing is worthless or beneath consideration.



Examples: 

‘Pam stared at the girl with total contempt’

‘it is no wonder journalists are held in such contempt’

‘Most Britons greeted this fraud with the scorn and contempt it deserves.’

‘Just another scenario where caring for someone close to me gets me nothing by contempt, scorn and hate in return.’

‘Later, I decided that I deserved his contempt, and I hated myself for what I had written.’

‘These twentieth century cannibals deserve the greatest scorn and contempt from all workers and humanitarians!’

‘The result of releasing these photographs would be, most likely, initial shock followed by disgust, contempt and repugnance.’

‘If we can also apply this kind of contempt and scorn to people who, say, kill police officers, we'll really get somewhere.’

‘In this day and age it is hard to believe that people can be held up to hatred, ridicule and contempt by a light-hearted gossip paragraph.’

‘This was a slap in the face to those rulers: a challenge, contempt and scorn for them, as if they are mere flies or dung beetles!’

‘Instead of tail-wagging gratitude, I was greeted with a look of utter contempt and scorn.’

‘They look upon it as a thing of contempt and scorn people who swear by virtual relationships.’

‘They're just wanting to exert their authority and treat Territorians with total contempt.’

‘Given this kind of attitude it is hardly surprising that increasingly local politics is held in total contempt.’

‘The woman looked at them with total contempt, as if they were something she would wipe off her shoe.’

‘I flinched as I heard her frosty voice tinged with bitter scorn and contempt.’

‘The first five were friends from school teasing him in fun or scorning him with contempt.’

‘Watch out for scorn, sarcasm, ridicule and contempt and inappropriate humour.’

‘But there are others who deserve not pity but contempt.’

‘Any company that treats its customers with such contempt deserves to go out of business, many said.’

‘But surely my discourse is not of such repulse that I am deserving of their contempt.’



1.1 Disregard for something that should be considered.



Examples: 

‘this action displays an arrogant contempt for the wishes of the majority’

‘It observes that the disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts that have outraged the conscience of mankind.’

‘Aquinas believed good law must be enforceable, otherwise it would be disregarded and risk causing contempt for all laws.’

‘Demands for respect while showing contempt for the religions and cultures of others has denied them any empathy for their perceived grievances.’

‘Their contempt for human life and disregard for the principle of non-combatant immunity stem not from despair and anger, but from nihilism.’

‘On the other hand the youth, like many others of his ilk these days, shows total disregard and contempt for authority of any kind.’

‘But his prickly sense of slighted dignity and obsessive contempt for other people's ethical squalor inevitably drags him down.’

‘If the Government refuses to introduce changes now, it will be demonstrating its contempt for democracy, public concern and animal welfare.’

‘This power, exercised politically for far too long, has added to the public's contempt for the honours that are now made.’

‘Really, how can the media deny that they have utter contempt for the public?’

‘In the bars he'd frequented as a cowboy hotshot, the elite stance involved a certain relaxed contempt for the flesh.’

‘What standard of measuring respect or contempt for human life should we use in making these judgments?’

‘This arrogance and contempt for public opinion must be curbed.’

‘How would he respond to the charge that his book expresses a certain contempt for the public?’

‘His contempt for the audience is only slightly less pronounced than his loathing of himself for being (in his own eyes) a phony and a sell-out.’

‘They have bad manners, contempt for authority and no respect for older people.’

‘These proposals seem to express an element of contempt for pet owners.’

‘We have reached a point where people feel contempt for the government but do not yet trust the opposition.’

‘Certainly they show a fanatic's contempt for the law.’

‘Well, I think his father had a certain contempt for the public relations factor in the presidency.’

‘The statement showed contempt for the public education system - its students, teachers and communities.’



1.2 The offence of being disobedient to or disrespectful of a court of law and its officers.



Examples: 

count noun ‘when he was found to have lied to the House this was a contempt’

‘Failure to do so would leave the health professional in contempt of court, an offence punishable by imprisonment.’

‘The relevant sanction is either being held in contempt of court or being prosecuted under the criminal law.’

‘Earlier this year Dr Smith was found in contempt of court by the High Court.’

‘The penalty for breach is punishment for contempt of court.’

‘That is neither a criminal offence nor a contempt of court.’

‘Three years ago, the Supreme Court said that legislation was needed to clarify the offence of contempt of court.’

‘Indeed, to do so would be a criminal offence - not defamation, but contempt of court, and you can go to jail for that.’

‘But never the less I was charged with contempt of court and drunken disorderly conduct and put in jail.’

‘At first instance the plaintiff did not seek to make out a case of an attempt to pervert the course of justice or of contempt of court.’

‘Yes, but the Supreme Court in its summary jurisdiction, which is a statutory jurisdiction, has no power to punish contempts of court.’

‘Of course, if the matter goes to trial, the witness can be compelled to attend to give evidence, and may be in contempt of court for failing to do so.’

‘I do not see how the Commonwealth could perform its part of the contract in that example without being in contempt of court.’

‘As between further violence and contempt of court, she may rationally choose the jail cell.’

‘A breach of an undertaking is contempt of court and punishable by committal to prison.’

‘Then the judge told Mr Beamish what was the maximum penalty for contempt of court.’

‘In all three cases the conclusion reached was that a deliberate intention to breach the order was not a necessary element for a finding of contempt of court.’

‘The charges stem from the attempted arrest for contempt of court.’

‘In my view, this observation should be the starting point of any analysis focusing on the rationale of contempt of court.’

‘The cross-motion was by the applicant for contempt of court, relying on some of the grounds raised now before me.’

‘I just do not want it alleged that I am in contempt of court, my Lord.’



 Utterly worthless or despicable.



Examples: 

‘tawdry trash that is beneath contempt’

‘But he's unworthy of mention; beneath contempt.’

‘He said: ‘Stealing from a dying woman is beneath contempt.’’

‘Any journalist, politician, general, writer, political operative or other so called public intellectual who can cling to such a statement is, equally, beneath contempt.’

‘Apparently, she thinks it's beneath contempt for politicians to ‘use’ their personal tragedies while campaigning.’

‘These people are beneath contempt and must be brought to justice.’

‘I hope he is caught and comes to realise that his behaviour is beneath contempt.’

‘The failure of these states to honor their commitments is beneath contempt.’

‘Considered so politically incorrect as to be beneath contempt.’

‘It is clear why these philosophers regarded Galileo's science as beneath contempt: to them it appeared pitifully trivial and inadequate.’

‘The idea that women could not be priests, for instance, she treated as beneath contempt, not even worth discussing.’



 Judge someone to have committed the offence of contempt of court.



Examples: 

‘the advocate was held in contempt for subpoenaing the judge’

‘Ignore a court summons and you will be held in contempt and possibly fined or even jailed.’

‘The judge held me in contempt, and I report to Cumberland minimum-security prison tomorrow.’

‘If the agency finds out that you've spoken to a reporter or even just told your friends or family about your grievance, you could be held in contempt of court, fined or imprisoned.’

‘Refuse, and you can be held in contempt of court.’

‘And number two, if she violates the order, she could be held in contempt of court and theoretically go to jail.’

‘Forty years ago, if you even stood up in court and said a policeman was lying, you would be held in contempt.’

‘Once there, if I refused to answer a question, I could be held in contempt and go to jail anyway, and there'd be nothing I could do about it.’

‘On some of the times I was held in contempt, that motion was held at the end of the trial so it would not slow down proceedings by having the DA or one of the DAs thrown off the case.’

‘Then the court could hold him in contempt - sending him to jail indefinitely, until he changed his mind.’

‘She had called my office because she intended to hold him in contempt.’



 Consider someone or something to be unworthy of respect or attention.



Examples: 

‘the speed limit is held in contempt by many drivers’

‘It's a matter of being willing to be aggressive against people who quite publicly hold you in contempt whether you agree with them or not.’

‘They have come to the conclusion that they are going to be screwed regardless of which party is in power, and they prefer to be screwed by a group that doesn't appear to hold them in contempt.’

‘Probably should have let him hold me in contempt, now that I think about it.’

‘He further contended that the justice court had failed to conduct an appropriate hearing and held him in contempt without evidence that he was responsible for failing to pay the fine.’

‘And even if he held her in contempt now, he had loved her once.’

‘However, on this occasion, not even fortune could give Macdonwald the victory, because Macbeth held her in contempt and won the battle anyway.’



Related Forms: 

Their pronouncements suggest that they hold those commitments in contempt.
self-contempt, noun



French: 

 mépris  m
 mépriser quelqu'un/quelque chose, avoir du mépris pour quelqu'un/quelque chose
 être tout ce qu'il y a de plus méprisable
 outrage  m
 accuser quelqu'un d'outrage (à magistrat or à la Cour)



29. Disdain

 The feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect.



Examples: 

‘her upper lip curled in disdain’

‘an aristocratic disdain for manual labour’

‘Certainly, she's arrogant and her disdain for them is palpable.’

‘He spoke with such fondness of the tuna melt, that despite my disdain for tinned tuna, I felt compelled to try one.’

‘Despite his disdain for much about the town at the time, the rector was optimistic about the future.’

‘He is also very arrogant, showing disdain for those who are not as observant or skilled as he is.’

‘The literary establishment's incoherent critique combines snobbish disdain for popular culture with an ahistorical philistinism.’

‘Despite her disdain for the bad boys, they keep on pursuing her.’

‘Despite my general disdain for the community at large, community service would be somewhat pointless without it.’

‘Humans generally held him in high contempt, showing disdain for him in some places, utterly shunning him in others.’

‘Despite his evident disdain for her, he still seemed uncomfortable arresting a woman who had been his friend and colleague for many years.’

‘Despite her disdain for the class and it's students, Angelique had better luck than most of them.’

‘Those who have it, use it, with condescension and casual disdain for those on the receiving end.’

‘Scientists will have to step out of their laboratories and humanists will have to give up their haughty disdain for modernity.’

‘In fact, its disdain for conventional musical genre - despite an obviously strong love of music - is what elevates it above the competition.’

‘In an incredible display of arrogance and disdain for the fans, we had to search for our umbrellas among piles of them left in heaps on the floor.’

‘His eyes blaze with contempt and disdain for you and your people.’

‘In this case, I find it difficult to understand why there's so much hatred and disdain for this movie.’

‘His contempt for ineptitude as well as his disdain for those who held opinions contrary to his was legendary.’

‘Neither side bothered to hide disdain for the opposition.’

‘Secondly, progressives should perhaps rethink their own disdain for service-based outreach programs.’

‘My utter disdain for the zoologist is no secret; I think he is ridiculously overrated as an intellectual.’



1 Consider to be unworthy of one's consideration.



Examples: 

‘he disdained his patients as an inferior rabble’

‘Dismissed by the press, disdained by opponents, Cassius Clay kept on winning.’

‘Aside from mushrooms, fungi are widely disdained by the agriculture industry.’

‘Although accustomed to supporting others through their physical pain, Sam disdains emotional intimacy ‘because it hurts.’’

‘He also disdains the disappearing-island theory, citing the contradiction of the building boom.’

‘He disdains the definition ‘disabled,’ traveling six months a year to play, win and show everybody it can be done.’

‘And I believe he puts a lot of weight on loyalty, and he disdains disloyalty.’

‘He disdains public explanations, or conversations: he rarely gives press interviews and when he does, he doesn't say much.’

‘Usually, it disdains the use of facades as a shell for a new building.’

‘He ranks high among the great detectives of fiction but does so unobtrusively, disdaining self-advertisement.’

‘He always disdained the idea of a ‘cradle competition’ between rich and poor, native and immigrant, white and black.’

‘He disdained deep delta blues, calling it ‘negative’.’

‘However, the change in tone of the Oscar ceremony disproportionately affects what the women will wear if ballroom gowns are disdained.’

‘By 1980, major record companies disdained the music, preferring the slicker stylings of the new wave.’

‘In a climate where the very idea of academic judgement is disdained, it is hardly surprising that some would cling to what appears to be a more precise and scientific approach.’

‘Political parties are much disdained these days, often deservedly.’

‘A long time ago, an editor left this paper and wrote a farewell column in which he disdained our readers and letter-writers.’

‘Populism is very powerful where the populace is disdained by the elites.’

‘They disdained make-up and shampoo but drove nice cars and lived in expensively decorated tree-houses.’

‘Of the three countries to put the constitution to the popular vote, two have now disdained it.’

‘Those who disdain wealth as crass materialism need to understand that wealth is one of the biggest life-saving factors in the world.’



1.1 Refuse to do (something) from feelings of pride or superiority.



Examples: 

‘she remained standing, pointedly disdaining his invitation to sit down’

with infinitive ‘he disdained to discuss the matter further’

‘Snape was sitting at the desk, but he disdained to even so much as lay a finger on the keypad.’

‘He ‘distained to mingle in the intrigues of court life’ and found his chief occupation in the formation of his collection.’

‘Perigryne felt his gaze upon her once again, but she disdained to move from her position.’

‘She wanted him to stop, wanted to plead for her release, but she disdained to beg for him, and she doubted that it would influence his intent in the slightest.’



Related Forms: 

self-disdain, noun
His look of disdain at my question lingers as he pronounces laconically: “We kill them.”
undisdaining, adjective



French: 

  dédaigner
 dédain  m, mépris  m
 avec dédain, dédaigneusement
 un regard dédaigneux



30. Dither

1 Be indecisive.



Examples: 

‘I can't bear people who dither’

‘he was dithering about the election date’

‘While other sporting associations and organisations vacillated and dithered and dallied, the GAA got on with it.’

‘It's a very small-scale event, so please don't dither, dally or delay.’

‘Because hanging around while someone dithers over their order was getting between him and his carefully crafted lifestyle.’

‘There must be no more discussion, delay or dithering on building this interceptor tunnel.’

‘The government has been warned to stop dithering and delaying over its Crossrail plans for Kingston.’

‘Dibden Bay and Southampton have been delayed and they are dithering about Bathside.’

‘They dithered and faltered and could not get the roll-out of the leadership coup over to the public or even amongst themselves.’

‘Time and again he dithered and dallied on the baseline.’

‘While the Government dithers, the project continues to suffer mind-boggling cost escalation at the rate of Rs. 55 lakh a day.’

‘As the Government dithers on the matter, he said, cancer sufferers in Waterford, Kilkenny, Wexford and Carlow are dying.’

‘While the FDA dithers, the case against selling EC over the counter weakens by the day.’

‘Meanwhile, as she dithers, I put more and more things into boxes.’

‘In the face of this, official Ottawa dithers and slithers, hoping questions about Arar will go away.’

‘We're still dithering over the Future Fund and talking of parking spare shares there.’

‘Yet the CEOs and the Boards of Directors still dithered and their share prices were unshaken.’

‘While the government dithers, the awful record of deaths at work gets worse.’

‘The limited access to anti-retrovirals and national government's dithering further dims their future.’

‘The longer that the government dithers, the deeper we get into debt.’

‘Still, we dithered around with first one idea and then another.’

‘And so Danny just stood in the background whilst the soldiers dithered around trying to make things safe.’



2 Add white noise to (a digital recording) to reduce distortion of low-amplitude signals.



Examples: 

‘In fact what I had done was to put the AIFF file in Wavelab, used the change gain function and re-dithered the song.’

‘In order to test the actuation bandwidth, the reference signal was dithered with a signal of constant amplitude, swept in frequency.’



2.1 Display or print (a colour image) in such a way that it appears to contain more colours than are really available.



Examples: 

‘the easiest way to remove hot pixels is to dither the images’

‘Photoshop / ImageReady accomplishes this through dithering the image in one of three methods, selectable by the user: diffusion, pattern and noise.’

‘GIF may win out with the non-dithering, fewer color images while JPEG is excellent for dithered continuous tone images.’

‘‘The messy dithering of colours that occurs with JPEG compression is bad feng shui.’’

‘The three images are supposed to show the effects of quantization and dithering, but that's nearly impossible to see in this black-and-white image.’

‘However, the dithering on the 24-bit photos we beamed over was very apparent thanks to the screen's low dot pitch.’



1 Indecisive behaviour.



Examples: 

‘after months of dither ministers had still not agreed’

‘After what seemed like an eternity of debate and dither, Winters finally smashed his kick high and to the left of Gallacher.’

‘The fresh wave of rhapsodic dither on the director's sociopolitical acuity was inevitable.’

‘Why all this dither about what's modern and what's not?’

‘His moment of authority coming as it does after an evening of dither and doubt is a well thought out and crafted piece of acting.’

‘It was entertaining to see them caught in a dither of priorities.’

‘Veterans are disappointed if not a little angered by the dither and delay which means the collection is now going 100 miles away.’

‘‘It is time the Government ended the dither and delay,’ Mr Burstow said.’

‘Intel's obviously in a bit of a dither about this.’



2 A state of agitation.



Examples: 

‘all of a dither, he prophesied instant chaos’

‘It's the day of the murder-mystery fundraising event and Colleen's all in a dither.’

‘After Clark and I returned home from our oceanic bonding session, we walked in the door to find the whole house in a dither.’

‘With Hong Kong in a dither, Shanghai is quickly gaining prominence as the gateway to China.’

‘But still, the whole experience can send me into a tissy and a dither and you don't want Halley in either of those places.’

‘Mary charged out of the room in an obvious dither.’

‘In DXD mode, dither is selectable for stereo and surround monitors, but you must not use it.’

‘Image processor using both dither and error diffusion to produce halftone images with less flicker and patterns’

‘Instead, the government opted for dither and funk.’

‘The Empress is in a dither about the sprinklers again.’



Related Forms: 

ditherer, noun
dithery, adjective



French: 

  hésiter,   se tâter
 décide-toi
 arrête de tourner en rond
 hésiter,  se tâter
 il était dans tous ses états à cause de ses examens



31. Contrived

1 Deliberately created rather than arising naturally or spontaneously.



Examples: 

‘Here, however, several contrived situations are grafted into the plot to generate artificial tension.’

‘Is her vulnerability a natural or contrived circumstance?’

‘In the end, a few short minutes in such contrived circumstances did little to further the debate on the something already described as a ‘national disgrace’.’

‘This theme is played out through a dozen strangers who become related by artfully contrived coincidence.’

‘They would rather deal with technology than with philosophy, tackle contrived situations than trigger debates on the nuances of film images.’

‘Both are real and ancient things, ignored by those who live in a bubble of artificial laughter and contrived wit, but alive to those who meet them in the everyday.’

‘How could it be that in a situation as artificially contrived as a television studio, you could get this frank and free discussion between two people?’

‘We are breaking free from our completely contrived preconception of how things ought to be.’

‘Harris rejected such an ahistorical and artificially contrived formulation of African studies.’

‘This is an authentic confessional, full of self-corrections and digressions and commentary on itself, without ever feeling contrived or artificial.’

‘My idea of a game, first of all, is that it represents a subset of the rules of Life, or an artificially contrived set of rules that represent something else entirely.’

‘Thus a contrived dichotomy between human rights and national security has been artificially orchestrated.’

‘The seemingly haphazard arrangement of pavilions was a contrived effect, it can be seen as a stand against the Beaux Arts tradition.’



1.1 Created or arranged in a way that seems artificial and unrealistic.



Examples: 

‘the ending of the novel is too pat and contrived’

‘The outside shots of the hospital during a thunderstorm look impressive, but the fire visuals are as artificial as the contrived resolution.’

‘Though supposedly posing a test of survival skills, the desert-island situation was rather contrived.’

‘A poor script with bad dialogue and a cheesy, contrived family crisis doesn't help her much.’

‘By all rights it shouldn't be; the story and situations are so contrived and so dependent on coincidence as to be completely unbelievable.’

‘The film moves from one contrived situation to another.’

‘Though its outcome could be considered contrived, the plot is woven with skill, leaving us always anticipating when it will pick up and proceed with another thread.’

‘The actors enter and exit through an archway at the rear of the stage, reminding the audience of the deliberately contrived nature of the play.’

‘It doesn't miss an obvious, telegraphed joke, but never comes up with an instance of humor that isn't contrived, plotted, or stale.’

‘Though the exposition is convoluted and a lot of the plot details are contrived, I kind of dug the story.’

‘Other critics cite stock characterization, weak plots, and contrived endings.’

‘The plot is contrived in a lot of places and uses some lazy devices in others.’

‘Its plot is more contrived and seems to be a little bit rushed towards the end.’

‘And both locate the main action in a peculiarly stylised family home, isolated in an equally contrived semi-rural landscape.’

‘Although it is fairly contrived and full of coincidences, it never feels forced or silly.’



Related Forms: 

uncontriving, adjective
contrivedly  [kuh n-trahy-vid-lee] /kənˌtraɪ vɪd li/, adverb
uncontrived, adjective
contriver, noun
well-contrived, adjective
contrivable, adjective



French: 

 délibéré, arrangé
orcé, peu naturel



32. Abdicate

1 (of a monarch) renounce one's throne.



Examples: 

‘in 1918 Kaiser Wilhelm abdicated as German emperor’

with object ‘Ferdinand abdicated the throne in favour of the emperor's brother’

‘Which king abdicated from the British throne in 1936?’

‘Following this the proud king abdicated his throne to his son Anandapala and committed suicide by climbing onto his own funeral pyre.’

‘If the Tsar had abdicated, what would happen to us?’

‘Most of the rumors have old roots, going back to before King Edward VIII even abdicated his throne for Wallis Simpson.’

‘In fact, he abdicated, offered the throne to his brother (who sensibly refused it [I think]) and Lenin seized power.’

‘The King abdicated in Bavaria, and a republican ‘Free State of Bavaria’ was proclaimed.’

‘In 1931 Spain's king abdicated, and a new republic was ushered in promising social change and progress.’

‘Now, on the constitutional point you raised there, Larry, on the queen abdicating, well, it's a frequent topic of conversation.’

‘The Habsburg and Hohenzollern dynasties abdicated, following the Romanovs.’

‘This is the day that I officially abdicate from my throne and pass the kingship on to my successor.’

‘The Duke of Windsor, Edward VIII, is famous for abdicating the throne to marry American divorcee Wallis Simpson.’

‘The Duke of Windsor, briefly King Edward VIII before he abdicated to marry Mrs Simpson, also owned a Stannard watercolour.’

‘In September he abdicated and Bolingbroke ascended the throne as King Henry IV.’

‘Hindenburg also used his huge influence to persuade Kaiser Wilhelm to abdicate and to go to Holland.’

‘She was ten when her father Albert, Duke of York, became king after Edward VIII abdicated in 1936.’

‘King Zog abdicated the throne on 2nd January 1949 and died in exile in France in 1961.’

‘Edward VIII abdicated after a reign of 325 days, in favour of his brother, the Duke of York, who became King George VI.’

‘When King Edward VIII abdicated in December 1936 it was a shock to the nation.’

‘In 1814, Napoleon Bonaparte abdicated as French Emperor and was banished to Elba.’

‘In 1967, Sultan Omar abdicated in favor of his eldest son, Hassanal Bolkiah, who became the 29th ruler.’



2 Fail to fulfil or undertake (a responsibility or duty)



Examples: 

‘the government was accused of abdicating its responsibility’

‘It is Council responsibility to do recycling and we're abdicating our responsibility.’

‘Governments around the world are abdicating their responsibilities to protect the natural resources in their territory, giving authority away to the private companies involved in resource exploitation.’

‘What is startling about this statement is the degree to which this mayor is simply abdicating responsibility for governing the city.’

‘Otherwise, she is abdicating her responsibility as a reporter.’

‘By abdicating its political responsibility the central cabinet seeks the Supreme Court's intervention to resolve the dispute.’

‘Our failure to address this issue equates to abdicating our fundamental responsibility to the next generation of West Indian youth.’

‘But the bottom line as far as she is concerned is that builders and developers have been abdicating any responsibility in this area.’

‘So do you think the networks are abdicating their responsibility to cover the substance of the campaigns?’

‘The federal government should help states do their job, not assist them in abdicating their duty.’

‘Once again the government is abdicating its responsibility and laying the blame elsewhere.’

‘He cannot envisage himself abdicating his moral responsibility in the matter.’

‘The problems arose because people were abdicating responsibility and were not getting the right person to do the job.’

‘In many cases, it has become a code word for abdicating the responsibilities of political leadership.’

‘He took aim at the antiwar movement, whose members, he claimed, had abdicated their historic responsibilities.’

‘The problem is that everyone seems to have abdicated their responsibility by saying, we'll let courts decide.’

‘Bradford licensing justices said that he had abdicated his duties as licensee to his brother Michael and his partner Claire.’

‘Yet is it really fair to assume that parents have abdicated their responsibilities?’

‘Notoriously ill-informed over policy detail and often content to abdicate control, he nonetheless maintained presidential dominance.’

‘He abdicated his role of objective journalist by repeatedly asking the envoy leading questions, loaded with venomous descriptions of the prime minister.’

‘If we abdicate our roles as adults, it will be media and peers that educate our kids.’



Related Forms: 

nonabdicative, adjective
to give up or renounce (authority, duties, an office, etc.), especially in a voluntary, public, or formal manner: King Edward VIII of England abdicated the throne in 1936.
abdicable (ˈæbdɪkəbəl), adjective
unabdicative, adjective
to renounce or relinquish a throne, right, power, claim, responsibility, or the like, especially in a formal manner: The aging founder of the firm decided to abdicate.
abdicable  [ab-di-kuh-buhl] /ˈæb dɪ kə bəl/, adjective
abdicative  [ab-di-key-tiv, -kuh-] /ˈæb dɪˌkeɪ tɪv, -kə-/, adjective
unabdicating, adjective
abdicative (æbˈdɪkətɪv), adjective
to renounce (a throne, power, responsibility, rights, etc), esp formally
abdication, noun
unabdicated, adjective
abdicator, noun



French: 

 renoncer à
  abandonner
 abdiquer
  abdiquer



33. Complacent

 Showing smug or uncritical satisfaction with oneself or one's achievements.



Examples: 

‘you can't afford to be complacent about security’

‘It is always wise to guard against adopting a complacent or smug attitude in life as one ages.’

‘The novelty of them has worn off and no team will again head north with the complacent attitude of an easy win and a night in Edinburgh.’

‘You only get one life, and if all you ever do with it is grow rich or complacent or comfortable or proud then you might as well not have lived at all.’

‘Plus, decades of access to cheap oil has made us lazy and complacent about energy.’

‘Most of the time he simply can't be bothered with it because he truly is lazy and complacent.’

‘There are many actions that companies can take to give staff a sense of security without making them complacent.’

‘However, residents have been warned they cannot afford to be complacent.’

‘But the superintendent is not complacent and is keen to reassure people there is still work to be done.’

‘As the minister for justice he was obviously very complacent about the letter sent to him by the fingerprint expert.’

‘Trying different things keeps you alive and stops you being complacent.’

‘While this lead will shrink before polling day, you might think he'd be a tad complacent.’

‘In all of this praise, however, there is a severe danger that we might become complacent.’

‘Nothing is 100 percent safe and nobody should be complacent at a cash machine.’

‘The second was made up of complacent industries relying on politicians and bureaucrats to protect them.’

‘I had been complacent, even blasé, about someone who was really important to me.’

‘His duty is to arouse the sleeper, to shake the complacent pillars of the world.’

‘With 66 deaths on our roads every week, none of us can afford to be complacent.’

‘I am very happy with the figures but I am aware we cannot become complacent.’

‘However, he is not being complacent and has already started training hard.’



Related Forms: 

noncomplacent, adjective
overcomplacently, adverb
overcomplacent, adjective
uncomplacent, adjective
uncomplacently, adverb
noncomplacently, adverb
complacently, adverb



French: 

 satisfait or content de soi, suffisant



34. Smug

 Having or showing an excessive pride in oneself or one's achievements.



Examples: 

‘he was feeling smug after his win’

‘He winked at me and I wanted to knock out a few teeth in that smug smile he flashed at me.’

‘The Minister can sit there with a smug smile and a smug face, and he can shake his head all that he wants to.’

‘A smug smile sat on her lips as she sipped on her cranberry juice, knowing exactly what was in store.’

‘He folded his hands behind his back as he walked, a smug smile on his face, surveying the venders.’

‘It is always wise to guard against adopting a complacent or smug attitude in life as one ages.’

‘I did a bit of redrafting, then emailed it into the office, feeling smug that I was working from home.’

‘Tell me you love the pics and I'll be smug about them for a couple of days.’

‘Even middle class is these days often used as a venomous synonym for smug, unadventurous or selfish.’

‘Lib Dems are a nice bunch whose only serious vice is being a little smug.’

‘He had that smug, always right, nasal sounding twang, of Ken's down to perfection.’

‘We sauntered out of the house, feeling fairly smug as we'd got organised quite quickly for a change.’

‘I feel a smug satisfaction in knowing I am taking them away to a better climate.’

‘I have rarely heard such nonsense delivered with such a smug air of authority.’

‘Naturally, they reserve the right to be smug and unimpressed, but still they'll come.’

‘Cooking our own meals added to a smug sense of self-sufficiency and general worthiness.’

‘The prospect of wiping the smug smirk of Murdoch's mug is a delightful notion.’

‘If anyone ever deserved to wear the smug grin of a Cheshire cat with all the cream, it is Julia Drown right now.’

‘If you are the only one this summer to avoid the hayfever or sunburn, you'll be feeling pretty smug.’

‘British MPs tend to feel smug that religion plays almost no role in our politics.’

‘We exchanged those rather smug looks that you do when you've just enjoyed a very special meal.’



Related Forms: 

unsmug, adjective
unsmugness, noun
smugness, noun
unsmugly, adverb
smugly, adverb



French: 

 content de soi, suffisant
 suffisant
 ce qu'il peut être suffisant or content de sa petite personne!



35. Reminiscent

1 Tending to remind one of something.



Examples: 

‘the sights were reminiscent of my childhood’

‘We were plunged into one of those public-service adverts reminiscent of the early days of Channel 4.’

‘Everything will be reminiscent of the old days of hang gliding.’



1.1 Absorbed in or suggesting absorption in memories.



Examples: 

‘her expression was wistful and reminiscent’

‘She felt strangely reminiscent of her father gazing at at the glossy surfaces of the jewel.’



2 Suggesting something by resemblance.



Examples: 

‘her robes were vaguely reminiscent of military dress’

‘Bush's 2001 and 2003 tax packages are eerily reminiscent of the Reagan cuts.’

‘Yet it seems eerily reminiscent of the empty politics of spin that we endure at home.’

‘Neat, compact, there was something about her vaguely reminiscent of a seal pup.’

‘The church plan, vaguely reminiscent of a classical basilica, is a simple asymmetric rectangle.’

‘They do so, paradoxically, in a rhetoric strongly reminiscent of that long associated with the right.’

‘Proctor is also top-notch, and uncannily reminiscent of Will Ferrell.’

‘She smiled at me in a way reminiscent of a doting aunt.’

‘Kieran paused, tilting his head in a manner reminiscent of a predator.’

‘The film is composed of a series of tableaux, with scenes reminiscent of detailed paintings.’

‘He still had a thick dirty blonde hair with a style reminiscent of Elvis.’

‘Wavy textures running the length of whitewashed walls create shadows reminiscent of the sea.’

‘Most sections began with the dancers striking a pose reminiscent of Rodin's muscular statues.’

‘The boy spread his arms with a small grin, taking on a pose reminiscent of a model.’

‘The title track is even an evocative melody reminiscent of early Portishead.’

‘Such wines have a very distinct aroma reminiscent of bananas or kirsch.’

‘That would be okay if the character really grabbed you, but this play was uncomfortably reminiscent of having somebody sit down next to you in the metro and tell you their life story.’

‘This DVD is a great mix of live music and intelligent conversation with a great band of seemingly cool guys, albeit with a geek factor reminiscent of the math faculty.’

‘He liked to display a map - reminiscent of a phrenology chart - showing which areas of the brain are involved in drug use and addiction.’

‘The quick-fire recording of Curious was reminiscent of the Cake's self-titled debut, recorded in a single day back in 1989.’

‘The hooded poncho he wears during the third act is clearly designed to look as much like a superhero cape as possible, and is reminiscent of DC Comics supernatural hero Spectre.’



Related Forms: 

unreminiscent, adjective
unreminiscently, adverb
reminiscently, adverb



French: 

 qui rappelle, quiait penser à
 on trouve des réminiscences de Proust dans certaines parties du livre, certaines parties du livre rappellent Proust



36. Wistful

 Having or showing a feeling of vague or regretful longing.



Examples: 

‘a wistful smile’

‘Clarke has responded to his critics with a dollop of wistful regret, followed by an adamant refusal to back down.’

‘The look on his face is, by now, nearly wistful; the smile almost bittersweet.’

‘If you ask about her previous boyfriend and she gets a small, wistful smile on her face, change the subject.’

‘I could see him going back in time and a small, wistful smile curled up on his lips.’

‘Christian's eyebrows rose good-naturedly and his bow shaped mouth formed a wistful smile.’

‘He held in a wistful sigh and smiled warmly when her eyes flicked up in the mirror, meeting his.’

‘Gregory felt a chill run up his spine at the wistful, dreamy tone of her voice.’

‘She chuckled lightly and exhaled a sigh caught somewhere in between wistful and dreamy.’

‘There was a wistful, daydreaming quality to Pete's voice that lulled me almost to sleep as we rode.’

‘What distinguishes Harcourt from his contemporaries is the way he laces his stories with wistful charm and surreal humour.’

‘All four wistful and melodic tracks document yearning and loss with an almost angelic intervention.’

‘Tin became wistful and in a surge of nostalgia offered to show me round.’

‘Director Bob Baker seems to have an innate understanding of the Coward paradox, that wistful vitriol.’

‘Hanging in the heart of Edinburgh, Constable's vision of Dedham Vale is a wistful window on to the very soul of rural England.’

‘The entire point of this post wasn't to engage in wistful remembrances.’

‘It has a wistful quality, a longing for a world gone never to return, which an author of Sampson's vintage can and should be excused.’

‘This part of the song comes out as something of a wistful ballad, but more interesting than most.’

‘They ran through emotions from funny, romantic and sad, to witty, wistful and thought-provoking.’

‘As I scraped applesauce and cream of eel from countless plates I felt wistful.’

‘And so, against all the odds, and all the elements, Powell got to make his wistful and impassioned film.’



Related Forms: 

wistfully, adverb
wistfulness, noun
unwistfulness, noun
unwistfully, adverb
unwistful, adjective



French: 

 mélancolique, nostalgique



37. Demographic

 Relating to the structure of populations.



Examples: 

‘the demographic trend is towards an older population’

‘Attitudes towards children were also connected to the changing demographic structure of colonial society.’

‘The demographic trend throughout the western world is towards an aging population.’

‘They point out that the demographic structure of Scotland is changing as we are becoming an aging society.’

‘However, demographic trends will mean less young people in the labour market and more older workers.’

‘A major demographic trend of the aging population is the increasing number of women.’

‘All statistical analyses take into account dietary and demographic factors and tobacco and alcohol habits.’

‘Comparisons are drawn between demographic patterns and career patterns of the two countries.’

‘It has been argued that nineteenth-century demographic change had more to do with fertility than mortality.’

‘He then selects individuals to interview, using demographic criteria.’

‘The country's economic and demographic base is too narrow to sustain a good higher education system.’

‘The growth can be explained by demographic growth, he said, and not by efforts of the university.’

‘Table 1 shows demographic details for families according to screening group.’

‘Table 3 shows the prevalence of drug resistance according to selected demographic factors.’

‘Those social and demographic factors may be key contributors to potential crises in the future.’

‘However there is one area in which we can make forecasts with some confidence: that of demographic change.’

‘There were no significant demographic differences between the screened and unscreened patients.’

‘Most of India's economic growth over the years was occasioned by, and spent on, demographic growth.’

‘Table 2 shows the clinical and demographic characteristics of the two groups.’

‘At the other end of life, projections that we can expect to live longer have become a focus for demographic anxieties.’

‘Both Canada and Japan have experienced profound demographic changes over the postwar period.’



 A particular sector of a population.



Examples: 

‘the drink is popular with a young demographic’

‘Audiences are improving again and the demographic is substantially younger than it once was.’

‘All of this places me squarely in the demographic of People Who Tend To Buy Things Online.’

‘Pseudo science-fiction movies aimed at the teen demographic can be the perfect way to start a morning.’

‘What's more, the gaming demographic is getting older, with almost a quarter of all gamers over the age of 40.’

‘Fill in any form, answer any telephone call, and soon you too will become part of a carefully-mapped demographic.’

‘It's mildly interesting that none of the main characters in the format fall into the demographic at which the show is targeted.’

‘It speaks volumes for the career opportunities of video artists that the demographic here is so narrow.’

‘Clearly she doesn't know the demographic that she's meant to be appealing to.’

‘The demographic of Irish business is such that it is made up of a large number of small and medium sized enterprises.’

‘Once something is published and put out, it's available for anyone to buy no matter who the intended demographic is.’

‘This time though he's marketing his ideas at a different demographic.’

‘I mean, Friday evenings aren't the time to capture the college demographic.’

‘Naturally, they're the demographic most apt to be in the market for a new home or car.’

‘I have wondered what the prime demographic for this type of game would be since it has sold so many copies.’

‘The way people drive in the future will also be transformed by a shift in the driver demographic.’

‘Their aim is for other newspapers with a different demographic to pick up the story.’

‘The demographic and gender balance of the participants was seen by some as not reflecting the community.’

‘The Olympics is hands down the most popular sporting event among every demographic.’

‘It is clear we are appealing to a broader demographic and therefore will want to offer customer a choice in the future.’

‘Is that demographic truly representational of the needs and values of the country as a whole?’



Related Forms: 

demographically, adverb
demographical, adjective



French: 

 démographique



38. Inadvertently

 Without intention; accidentally.



Examples: 

‘his name had been inadvertently omitted from the list’

‘Many if not most of the arsonists appeared to have started big fires inadvertently with small fires.’

‘Sadly, we tried to usher the creature out the window, but ended up hitting it inadvertently.’

‘In trying to get something he had inadvertently given something away.’

‘A monarchy which strives to avoid political controversy now finds itself inadvertently at the heart of it.’

‘To avoid being billed twice inadvertently, don't press any button more than once.’



Related Forms: 

Outed by a fellow Duke student, Knox inadvertently became a pronounced public figure when she spoke up for herself.
inadvertently, adverb



French: 

 par mégarde or inadvertance



39. Comprehensive

1 Including or dealing with all or nearly all elements or aspects of something.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive list of sources’

‘From a comprehensive list of nearly 1,600 daily newspapers, 500 newspapers were selected using standard interval sampling.’

‘The Guide contains a comprehensive list of businesses and services in the town and contains a very useful street map of Ballinrobe.’

‘Its Explore Kodiak guide has a comprehensive list of outfitters and free activities.’

‘More and more colleges and universities are developing comprehensive diversity plans to guide changes in campus policies and procedures.’

‘Currently the only possible source for a comprehensive list of travellers, as we've already established, lies in the carriers' passenger lists.’

‘The training videos contain comprehensive information on all aspects of good environmental practice at farm level, presented in an interesting and stimulating manner.’

‘It called for constituting a committee to conduct a comprehensive review of all aspects of the party's performance and make recommendations for future plan of action.’

‘That was one element within a comprehensive report.’

‘Both states signed their treaties claiming they were elements of a comprehensive peace.’

‘Though a large volume of literature is available on the issues discussed in the book it is a comprehensive treatise on related aspects of food and nutrition and the editors have taken pain to deal with every aspect.’

‘This comprehensive volume of nearly 600 poems, many accompanied by the Spanish original, bursts with evocative images.’

‘This will include the development of a comprehensive manual for all aspects of driver licencing including that of driving schools and instructors.’

‘The entire nightmare could have been avoided had he kept comprehensive documentation of his dealings with the plaintiffs.’

‘But these are unavoidable aspects of a comprehensive exposition of any subject.’

‘I thought he was fairly comprehensive in his coverage of various issues.’

‘The documentary shows its age, but it provides a fairly comprehensive overview of the legendary director.’

‘Seeing the problems his students faced, Mr. Silman has created the first comprehensive strategic guide in dictionary form.’

‘The result is the first comprehensive analysis of preventable patient deaths linked to infections within 5,810 hospitals nationally.’

‘Some sites offer links to others and through such links a reasonably comprehensive list can be obtained.’

‘Take a peek at our comprehensive guide to dining out in the city.’



1.1 Of large content or scope; wide-ranging.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive collection of photographs’

‘Its thorough research and comprehensive scope should prove invaluable for anyone seriously interested in the subject.’

‘The design phase is comprehensive in scope, tackling everything from content and design to functionality and user interface.’

‘The Senate Inquiry into mandatory sentencing was broad-ranging, thorough and comprehensive in terms of scope and evidence.’

‘This is a wide ranging and comprehensive survey of children and the experience of childhood.’

‘Making broad scope, comprehensive documentaries about an event the magnitude of World War II is a tall order, often with less than satisfactory results.’

‘Because it is comprehensive in scope and specific in detail, it can eliminate the ambiguities that exist in most partnerships.’

‘The volume does not cover all issues in detail and it was not intended to be comprehensive in scope.’

‘Sir Gawaine's British West Indies collection is part of a wider comprehensive collection of stamps from Great Britain and the British Empire.’

‘The authors make no claims for completeness, indeed are transparent about the gaps, yet this book is impressively comprehensive in scale, scope and analytical range.’

‘Yet, inevitably, the comprehensive scope of Ackroyd's book requires that he sometimes sacrifice elaboration for example, depth for breadth.’

‘Naval historians would do well to familiarize themselves with his style of narrative, his comprehensive coverage, and scope of research.’

‘Unbelievable in its comprehensive scope, the vast material supports a view of Africa as the archetypal artistic environment.’

‘Although debate on the measure was fairly abbreviated, the resulting measure was comprehensive in both its scope and design.’

‘Their collaborative research is quite comprehensive in its scope.’

‘It combines a comprehensive scope, concisely written entries and the best in current biblical scholarship.’

‘The Convention is extraordinarily comprehensive in scope.’

‘This presentation is comprehensive in scope but lacks much historical analysis.’

‘The Guardian's more comprehensive survey also came up with far higher job losses than the government admits.’

‘Their collaborative research is quite comprehensive in its scope.’

‘The volume does not cover all issues in detail and it was not intended to be comprehensive in scope.’



1.2 (of a victory or defeat) achieved or suffered by a large margin.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive victory for Swansea’

‘Almost immediately afterwards, the Under-17s cemented victory in their own league with a comprehensive defeat of visitors Sandbach.’

‘However, this was a very comprehensive victory, a complete team performance.’

‘Brookes added the goal to complete a comprehensive victory for Albion.’

‘With his opponent looking tired, Khan took full advantage landing plenty of powerful shots to secure a comprehensive victory.’

‘But Cameron could not argue that Thursday's decisive victory was comprehensive, because his forward march appears to have ground to a halt at the northern boundaries of Middle England.’

‘After their comprehensive defeat at Scarborough last Saturday, York will be looking to get their Oxbridge ECB Yorkshire Premier League programme back on the rails this weekend.’

‘The Oxford Kings' defense struggled through the first five innings of Sunday's game against the Cambridge Monarchs, allowing the Tabs to take eight runs on the way to a comprehensive victory.’

‘Selby Warriors also won their first game in PN division five, albeit by only a single point, and they will be looking for a more comprehensive victory on Saturday as they visit the hapless Panthers.’

‘Deputy head teacher Patrick Earnshaw, who witnessed the school's comprehensive victory at Kendal Town Hall on Thursday night, said he was extremely proud of his students.’

‘Gloucester were a distant second-best as 12,500 Munster fans roared their side on to a comprehensive victory which gives them an away quarter-final in April.’

‘The last thing they need now is this afternoon's game at Leeds, who will be desperate to recover from the disappointment of Wednesday's comprehensive defeat by Real Madrid.’

‘Last October's comprehensive defeats by the Irish at both senior and under-21 levels on their own soil shows Kelly that the opposition has stepped up a gear.’

‘Hamed, back for the first time since his comprehensive defeat to Marco Antonio Barrera in Las Vegas, looked sluggish and occasionally even disinterested.’

‘Three minutes after Hartson made it three, Petrov made it four and what was looking like a comprehensive victory started heading inexorably towards a humiliation.’

‘Oxford UCCE women's cricket team began this season as they finished the last - with a comprehensive victory over their Cambridge rivals.’

‘Their comprehensive defeat was confounded even further yesterday when they visited Yorkshire Academy in the League Cup quarter-finals.’

‘Salford's comprehensive victory laid down a significant marker ahead of the play-offs and will have created considerable doubt in Leigh minds.’

‘Cork's attack was toothless that day and, in a game that was stuffy for long enough, Tipperary's eight-point victory was comprehensive.’

‘Richmond continued their domination in both league and cup with a comprehensive victory over Dorking in the Surrey Cup quarter-finals.’

‘Blue is the colour in North Yorkshire today after the Conservative Party swept to a comprehensive victory in the county council elections.’



1.3 (of motor-vehicle insurance) providing cover for most risks, including damage to the policyholder's own vehicle.



Examples: 

‘Some cost items will differ for different vehicle types, notably comprehensive insurance, but in the main it is reasonable to use fleet size.’

‘Is it possible to take out one insurance policy, preferably comprehensive, that would cover us all to drive either of the cars?’

‘The good news for motorists with fully comprehensive insurance is that they are covered if their car has water damage.’

‘He agreed only after ensuring that he was covered under the defendant's comprehensive car insurance policy.’

‘For example, a 56-year-old driving a 2001 Toyota Avensis received a quote of €735 from Axa for comprehensive insurance.’

‘He thought that all drivers should be made to have fully comprehensive insurance and that driving jobs should be given to local people.’

‘This insurance is designed to protect motorists from payout shortfalls that could arise between the original price paid for a car and the comprehensive insurance payout in the case of loss.’

‘It must be comprehensive insurance, because you're driving someone else's car.’

‘If you happen to own a posh motor, or are particularly accident-prone, then you might consider taking out fully comprehensive insurance.’

‘Motorists with fully comprehensive insurance mistakenly think they have insurance for the contents of their car along with the car itself.’

‘Even those who have fully comprehensive motor insurance while driving in the UK need to check, as most policies only offer third-party cover on the continent.’

‘The cost of comprehensive motor insurance has almost doubled, rising by 86%.’

‘A typical comprehensive and collision policy will usually only cover the fair market value for your car.’



2 Relating to or denoting a system of secondary education in which children of all abilities from a particular area are educated in one school.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive school’

‘It is important that all schools see themselves, and are seen, as part of a comprehensive system of secondary education.’

‘The comprehensive education system was last night seized upon as a key factor in reducing the chances of Scots born between 1967 and 1976 bettering themselves.’

‘Is the comprehensive education system to blame for making these teachers' jobs practically impossible?’

‘The whole point of a comprehensive education system is to encourage the best and brightest pupils not merely to educate those with rich parents who went to private schools.’

‘Before the comprehensive state education systems were established, there had been some local control of schools and some local funds raised for them.’

‘Mike says the play, which criticises the values that prevail in the comprehensive school education system, is ideal for young performers.’

‘New Zealand has a fully comprehensive education system.’

‘Historically, comprehensive secondary education in mixed-ability schools was first introduced by Labour.’

‘Northern Ireland still uses the selective grammar school system that was largely replaced by comprehensive education in Britain in the 1970s.’

‘League tables have led to a systematic attack on comprehensive education.’

‘For her, as for much of the Scottish educational establishment, the comprehensive system is sacrosanct.’

‘The expansion of higher education has been on the back of comprehensive education.’

‘She supports comprehensive education and opposes selection.’

‘I don't believe we'd have the made the progress we have with girls' education without comprehensive education.’

‘We have given long-standing support to comprehensive education and we stand by that.’

‘Supporters of the comprehensive system pointed to the figures as evidence that selective education in the state sector was unnecessary.’

‘Because of the spread of comprehensive education from the mid-1960s, by 1990 only about 7 per cent of local authorities had retained grammar schools.’

‘Catholic students entered University as never before, and were further aided by the introduction of comprehensive education.’

‘He introduced comprehensive education, women's emancipation legislation, and reforms in higher education.’

‘I have fought for comprehensive education all my life, including during the 20 years I have been at Kingsland.’



3 Relating to understanding.



Examples: 

 A comprehensive school.



Examples: 

‘he trained as an accountant after leaving the local comprehensive’

‘when I was 14 I was at comprehensive’

‘About 12,000 pupils went on to study at the same 400 selective grammar schools or top-rated comprehensives.’

‘The majority of these producers did not attend fee-paying schools; more went to grammar schools or comprehensives.’

‘City academies - independent comprehensives part-funded by the private sector - and specialist schools will not be introduced north of the Border.’

‘The snuffing out of that option, by the ideologically driven determination to replace grammar schools with comprehensives, was a quite explicit piece of social engineering.’

‘All but one of the top 26 state schools nationally were comprehensives.’

‘Some of us were going to private schools or comprehensives, so we didn't have to take it.’

‘In England they have been transforming failed comprehensives into specialist schools and city academies.’

‘We do not argue that public comprehensives jettison their professional and technical programs.’

‘‘There is no point at which grammar schools exceed the performance of comprehensives at teaching able pupils,’ he said at the time.’

‘In the latest set of school league tables, comprehensives are getting results as good as or higher than grammar schools in the ‘value added’ part of the table.’

‘As today's exclusive survey shows, a massive gulf separates Bradford's highest-flying comprehensives from those with lower scores.’

‘People power has forced councillors to rethink plans to change school catchment areas and bar scores of pupils from their local comprehensives.’

‘About half went to fee-paying schools and the rest to state grammars and comprehensives.’

‘A Guardian leak suggests that one of the most scandalous proposals, letting ‘public’ schools take over comprehensives, may be restricted to London.’

‘Plans to rebuild two other comprehensives - Beckfoot and Grange Technology College - plus new special schools will be included in a ‘second wave’ bid to be put in over the next few weeks.’

‘We should be defending mixed local comprehensives.’

‘Laidlaw has given assurances that his schools would remain comprehensives and would take everyone from the catchment area.’

‘More recently, he has declared opposition to comprehensives and support for the return of grammar schools.’

‘More than one in five teachers who taught some maths in comprehensives had nothing better than an A-Level in the subject, and the proportion fell to just over half in the case of RE.’

‘Instead, many went to council-run comprehensives and attended newer universities or none.’



Related Forms: 

precomprehensive, adjective
uncomprehensive, adjective
precomprehensiveness, noun
noncomprehensively, adverb
uncomprehensively, adverb
comprehensiveness, noun
precomprehensively, adverb
quasi-comprehensive, adjective
quasi-comprehensively, adverb
uncomprehensiveness, noun
noncomprehensive, adjective
noncomprehensiveness, noun
comprehensively, adverb



French: 

 complet, exhaustif
 détaillé, complet
 connaissances vastes or étendues
 mesures d'ensemble
 une assurance tous risques
 les écoles ont abandonné les critères sélectifs d'entrée



40. Metric

1 Relating to or based on the metre as a unit of length.



Examples: 

‘all measurements are given in metric form’

‘Each color has its own wavelength, from dark red, which has the longest wavelength, to violet, which has the shortest wavelength, expressed in metric units of length.’

‘Most metric recipes were based on a weight unit of 25 grams - slightly less than an ounce - and a liquid measure of half a litre, which was slightly less than a pint.’

‘This system contains most of the metric units you are used to, like meters and kilograms, but also includes units for many other physical and engineering properties.’

‘All this really means is that you are not using metric units.’

‘Most students will more immediately comprehend data given in the text because of the use of English rather than metric units.’

‘A button can also convert a number between Imperial and metric units, or look up a word in the dictionary, or fetch data from a database or Web site.’

‘Further, the news that the kilo is in such imminent danger of extinction will no doubt be seen as a vindication by Brits reluctant to sell their fruit and veg in metric units.’

‘In the United States, the engineers work in imperial units, while in the rest of the world, metric units are primarily used.’

‘Our modern metric units, like the gram or the centimetre, originate from their handy description of everyday quantities.’

‘He used the pyramids as support for a totally barmy argument against metric units.’

‘This is a rare case of a social scientific measure that has become so well known that the measure and the concept are almost as synonymous as temperature and the centigrade or Fahrenheit scales, or as length and the metric scale.’

‘Water was used as the basis for establishing the metric unit of mass, however, so it is easier to remember that a cubic centimeter of it has a mass of 1 gm.’

‘Give weights, measurements, and medication dosages in metric units and temperatures in both Fahrenheit and Celsius degrees.’

‘But metric units needed paper for calculations and hence they were not related to everyday life.’

‘The road is measured in miles, or in these EU directed metric times, kilometres and the journey in hours and minutes.’

‘The first mission, Mars Climate Orbiter, didn't stop fast enough and crashed into Mars because engineers didn't convert between metric and imperial units properly.’

‘The metric version of these numbers is 26.5 liters per kilogram of beans’

‘Our products are offered both in inch and metric sizes.’

‘The tool accepts both inch and metric data, and computes parameters such as torque.’

‘The minister said the review will be part of a planned changeover to metric speed limit signage, from MPH to kilometers per hour.’



1.1 Relating to or using the metric system.



Examples: 

‘we should have gone metric years ago’



2 Relating to or denoting a metric.



Examples: 

‘the metric equation of Minkowski space–time’

‘Progress was being made in that gravitation was described for the first time by the metric tensor but still the theory was not right.’

‘The relationship is precisely specified by the most profound equation of STR, usually called the metric equation (or line metric equation).’

‘Isoperi metric problems have been a source of important mathematical ideas and techniques since classical antiquity.’

‘It is possible to prove the above result without using metric properties (merely using order axioms), but it is not possible to drop the order axioms themselves.’

‘He also conformed, perhaps more happily, to the decisions regarding the metric division of angles into 100 subdivisions.’



1 A system or standard of measurement.



Examples: 

‘the levels of branching are arbitrary and no precise metric is applied to distance between the nodes’

‘This means that worst-case measurements of system metrics are the only thing that matters to a hard real-time application, because these are the cases that cause a missed deadline.’

‘That loss can be measured using standard metrics of compensating variation, equivalent variation, or consumer surplus using national demand functions.’

‘The two standard metrics for information retrieval are relevance and retrieval, i.e. what percentage of all the good stuff you get back.’

‘If the metric does not meet standards, it might indicate a problem with training, or it might signal a significant problem that will affect the wing's performance.’

‘The metric should also measure the degree to which the compliance system adopted by a company is effective beyond merely the regulatory requirements specific to FDA.’



1.1 (in business) a set of figures or statistics that measure results.



Examples: 

‘Substituting low-quality performance metrics for value metrics represents a step in the wrong direction.’

‘We see an up tick in the metrics we use to evaluate the amount of potential business in our pipeline.’

‘Finally, abandoning value metrics is akin to throwing the baby out with the bathwater.’

‘Embracing value-based metrics fully means taking the time to adjust their inner workings to fit your company's needs.’

‘Few managers, it's safe to say, spent much time thinking about metrics or best practices.’

‘Another hospital chain honing its use of metrics is New Delhi-based Fortis.’

‘These are the types of metrics clients will demand.’

‘You provide that evidence by going through the metrics of the sales process.’

‘No doubt, the combination of money and smart metrics is tough to beat.’

‘But taking the sector as a whole, performance on all of the key metrics has been dire.’

‘It's one of the great metrics of a successful business.’

‘The review also shows that in most cases the growth in these metrics far exceeds the growth in their loan books.’



1.2 A binary function of a topological space which gives, for any two points of the space, a value equal to the distance between them, or to a value treated as analogous to distance for the purpose of analysis.



Examples: 

with modifier ‘the external structure of space–time is described by the Schwarzschild metric’

‘A Banach space is a real or complex normed vector space that is complete as a metric space under the metric induced by the norm.’

‘Weyl opened the way to the conformal differential geometry of Riemannian spaces in which one studies the properties of the spaces invariant under the so-called conformal transformation of the Riemannian metric.’

‘We conclude that a trend analysis of median comet metrics from repeated experiments at different stress levels is certainly an efficient way to statistically demonstrate a genotoxic effect.’

‘The Robertson-Walker metric which Walker mentions in this quotation arose from joint work which he did with his colleague H P Robertson in the late 1930s.’

‘On page three of this text (the first full page after the preface) the Schwarzchild metric is written down.’



2 The metric system.



Examples: 

‘it's easier to work in metric’

‘They use metric here in Japan, though, so ‘centimeters towards meaningful democracy’ would be more correct, but in reality the change is closer to micrometric.’

‘I found myself constantly doing the mental trick I did in Austraila, where in my head, I pre-scan every word I am about to say, looking for any mentions of numerical data that would have to be converted to metric.’

‘Like the inhabitants of small villages in Surrey, I don't do metric.’

‘However, a spokesman for the Department for Transport said: ‘The derogation says we will go to metric when we choose a date.’’

‘The only sensible solution is to complete the changeover to metric, and as swiftly and cleanly as possible.’

‘And in line with already-announced changes, road signs displaying limits in miles-per-hour will go metric nationwide within the next 12 months.’

‘We are not against metric, but against the enforcement of it in this country.’

‘Burt took a deep breath and launched into a lengthy explanation of the technicalities of the game, which seems to involve yards and other things I thought the EU made illegal when we all went metric.’

‘As Evening Press correspondents continue to mull over metric's efficiencies and deficiencies, we decided to look back at how the paper had covered the changeover from imperial in the Seventies.’

‘In or about July, 2005, you're going to go metric.’

‘Oh, I never learned metric… what's that in inches?’

‘He was also president of the York Chamber of Trade and as far back as the 1940s was keen to see Britain going metric, as he felt it would help the country in all ways in the long-term.’

‘But for most people, metric is just an irritation which they overcome.’

‘You try to think how much fabric you will need, translating shapes into metres, or in my case, yards which I then convert to metric.’

‘There was one when Stella compared the initial feeling of losing her memory to what it was like to live in Canada around the time that it suddenly switched to metric.’

‘I've yet to find one customer to ask for anything in metric, and you can ask any customer I serve and I do serve a lot of customers.’

‘No change in speeding: The new signs to control speed in metric has had little effect on the traffic passing through the town centre.’

‘This increase may partly be due to the changeover to metric.’

‘Earlier this year, the Repubic of Ireland successfully converted its signs to metric without any significant problems.’

‘Do you remember what happened as soon as we went metric?’



 Relating to or composed in a poetic metre.



Examples: 

‘the public recitation of metric, rhyming verse’

‘Humor raises no such difficulty, for it is a purely formal device, more akin to the metric pattern of verse than to that of a trope.’

‘I opted for freedom, though on many occasions continuing to use familiar metric forms, but rejuvenated within the iridescent world of metaphor.’

‘Also painfully absent is any discussion of the poetry, of the metric and formal characteristics of these texts, their historic or social changes, or their regional idiosyncrasies.’

‘In a previous lesson, Flint introduced the concept of metric feet (rhythmic modes), since she knew Nadan was studying poetry.’

‘He was interested in sonority, metric freedom, and rhythmic force.’

‘All metric translations strictly follow the original Sanskrit verse format.’

‘There's something tired about sample-based music which still holds everything together with a metric beat, especially a generic ‘hip hop’ beat.’



 The metre of a poem.



Examples: 

‘Here, as in Harper's later volumes, musical rhythm replaces traditional metrics in the poetry without sacrificing craft.’

‘This feature was reflected in the development of Anglo-Irish metrics and was first felt through the rhythms of folksongs.’

‘What Pound did in this text was to construct a Well-Tempered Prosody to exercise his mastery of metrics and diction.’

‘Wyatt has left us poems whose ‘flexibility and intricacy’ arises from their adherence to music rather than metrics, and Bunting seized on them as a means to invigorate his own lines.’

‘So the initial fourteen verses of To Saxham make plain when one considers them in light of more than metrics.’

‘Hopkins and Whitman appropriately shared a metric that suited their commitment to the natural.’

‘But in any century, syllabic romance metrics engage the ear while Latin quantitative metrics engage the mind.’

‘Justice's most obvious technical accomplishments involved not metrics but stanzaic forms and repetition.’

‘The need for flexibility also interferes with simple metrics.’



Related Forms: 

a combining form occurring in adjectives that correspond to nouns ending in -meter (barometric) or -metry (geometric).



French: 

 métrique
 adopter le système métrique
 50 kilogrammes  mpl
 tonne 



41. Overarching

 Comprehensive or all-embracing.



Examples: 

‘a single overarching principle’

‘The overarching aim of the National Archives policies is to improve public access to archives.’

‘United Future contends that the foundations of this bill are rooted in the overarching principle of national security.’

‘It is also highly selective, highlighting a few overarching issues with wide biological impact or interest for the non-specialist, noting important trends and interpreting their significance.’

‘In effect, nationalism provided a strong overarching bond of identity to set against and ameliorate class divisions.’

‘I'm interested in what you see as the overarching artistic principle here.’

‘While it is imperative to have an overarching policy framework that comprehends the fundamental factors shaping our world, in practice, foreign policy typically is local.’

‘However, the overarching principle is that of conscientious objection, rather than the risk of participating in unlawful acts.’

‘However, its main strength is its potential to provide an overarching political framework that will enable a wide range of goals to become achievable.’

‘At present, most democratic civil law countries tend to uphold the doctrine of strict legality as an overarching principle.’

‘The overarching principle at work is that everyone contributes to the common need.’

‘The overarching objective of the review is to complement the work of the current investigation team by assessing progress to date.’

‘The United Nations has an overarching responsibility for refugee matters.’

‘Pedagogical freedom is not an absolute; it is instrumental and subservient to the university's overarching interest in promoting free inquiry and debate.’

‘It seems to me to be totally inappropriate for one department to be able to have that sort of overarching control of that wider area.’

‘While not everyone agrees on what should or should not be included in open access publishing, an overarching feature is that there should be universal access to all scientific knowledge.’

‘There is one overarching positive message for developing countries from the genome project.’

‘From an overarching historical perspective, Scots and Scotland have been for several hundred years at the forefront of medical, educational, technological and philanthropic innovation.’

‘And once the band start to realise that the Foum is theirs for the taking, there's no stopping the emotional exuberance overriding the technical side and becoming the overarching feature of the night.’

‘The overarching theme of the manifesto is that Britain is heading in the wrong direction.’

‘In place of an overarching framework - the web that connects humanity together - historians are encouraged to focus their inquiry on the local and particular.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



42. Explicit

1 Stated clearly and in detail, leaving no room for confusion or doubt.



Examples: 

‘the arrangement had not been made explicit’

‘To ensure consistency, several definitions were made explicit before data entry began.’

‘The methodologies employed are not only made explicit, but discussed in some detail, albeit at times anecdotally.’

‘At least one has even made explicit reference to the use of nuclear bombs, albeit as a retaliatory measure.’

‘A narrative is implied, but never made explicit.’

‘Although his condition is never made explicit, the Swindon teenager shows all the signs of having Asperger's.’

‘It is not to my present purpose to consider how such an explicit definition of the notion of a sense-datum might be formulated.’

‘It's clearly an explicit miscarriage of justice, and I'm glad to see that these young guys are being free.’

‘Others make more explicit the objectives to which the government should devote itself.’

‘During the initial days after the diagnosis, your patient or the parents may need very explicit instructions.’

‘The ransom note is very explicit on what he's going to do.’

‘I have explicit instructions not to share that with you right now.’

‘A number of instructional texts make explicit reference to the difficulties of learning Thai.’

‘In 2003 the Justice Minister gave his explicit consent for the adoption of 595 children.’

‘You may use my personal information - but only with my explicit permission.’

‘The contract with the writer is very explicit, he explains.’

‘The area of this part can be found once we have an explicit description of its graph.’

‘Plekhanov's program did not represent an explicit disavowal of socialist objectives.’

‘Assumptions are explicit statements describing the present and future environment.’

‘In this section, we describe these forms of explicit prejudice.’

‘Taking examples from actual primary care practice, Launer presents the techniques in a clear, explicit fashion.’



1.1 (of a person) stating something in an explicit manner.



Examples: 

‘let me be explicit’

‘He was not explicit but implied to me that most of the people were in some way connected with publishing or writing.’

‘We were quite explicit in the consultation process that this would be one of the savings that would be made.’

‘People fall in love all the time, but few professional athletes are so explicit in recounting the moment they met their soulmate 15 years earlier.’

‘From the start, he was explicit about his modus operandi: We were to give him our program, and he would give us a design.’

‘It would have helped had he been more explicit on this point.’

‘His former colleagues were explicit in their condemnation.’

‘Can you be explicit about whether you think a pull out of Australian troops would be a substantial damaging of the alliance?’

‘It is important that scientists are explicit about the limitations of their work.’

‘However, he was not explicit as to when and how a civil dictatorship could replace a military government and eventually be replaced by a democratic system.’

‘The Spanish-dominant families were explicit about their concerns.’

‘Fortunately, Alexander is more explicit elsewhere in his writings.’

‘At the end of the book Toussaint moves toward post-development discourse, although he is not explicit about it.’

‘The officials were very explicit at the select committee.’

‘Henry was explicit about this in one of only two articles he published on decorative art while he was in Sydney.’

‘If they were not explicit, it would certainly have been implied.’

‘If you are explicit in the comment section of your order, I've found that they are pretty good.’

‘Once we are explicit in the legislation, we can move away from that general reference to the principles of the treaty.’

‘Now she was very explicit as to what her first choice still was, it was still revenge.’

‘In fact, the Court is quite explicit on this point.’

‘I think they've been very explicit about this for months.’



1.2 Describing or representing sexual activity in a graphic fashion.



Examples: 

‘a sexually explicit blockbuster’

‘They said they just felt that the explicit depiction of sexual activity and nudity was unacceptable.’

‘I'd put an even more explicit photo on, except I'd have to put an Agecheck on my site!’

‘He also described ‘a gay sexual encounter in explicit and derogatory terms’ from the pulpit.’

‘Testimony also included description of explicit photographs that include the defendant in them.’

‘The site includes explicit photography and detailed descriptions of sex acts.’

‘There are often legal and other obstacles to using highly explicit videos in assessing sex offenders.’

‘Pimping, hookers, all sexual acts and explicit language has been censored in the Australian version.’

‘The explicit references to sexual perversions are not the best thing about the book, although they don't really do it much harm.’

‘Her explicit accounts of her sexual journey developed into this fictionalised memoir.’

‘The board objected to explicit scenes depicting sexual relations between a 15-year-old girl and an adult man.’

‘This is erotic fiction complete with explicit language and sexual content.’

‘There's no other way to describe him without using explicit language.’

‘Any readers who are easily offended or who simply dislike explicit descriptions of sex should avoid this novel.’

‘It was a very explicit, very descriptive story with a sex scene between Tristan and Ian.’

‘He only read it because he heard there were some very explicit sexual situations in it.’

‘The trilogy also introduced a far more explicit approach to the sexual nature of the vampire.’

‘Do librarians have a right to a workplace reasonably free of sexually explicit materials?’

‘The director's cut features a few fairly explicit scenes that didn't make it to U.S. theaters.’

‘Do you think things have become too explicit today and thus less erotic?’

‘Have today's films become too explicit in dealing with sex?’



 The closing words of a manuscript, early printed book, or chanted liturgical text.



Examples: 

Related Forms: 

unexplicitly, adverb
explicitly, adverb
superexplicit, adjective
quasi-explicit, adjective
unexplicit, adjective
overexplicit, adjective
explicitness, noun
quasi-explicitly, adverb
superexplicitly, adverb



French: 

 explicite
 le sexe et la violence montrés ouvertement à la télévision
 cru



43. Implicit

1 Suggested though not directly expressed.



Examples: 

‘comments seen as implicit criticism of the policies’

‘Resource limitation is an implicit assumption of any competition hypothesis and should be tested.’

‘He conceded that such an inference would be only implicit.’

‘They may also be curtailed, with the explanation left implicit.’

‘The process of learning to read seems to involve both explicit and implicit learning.’

‘And it is that implicit possibility that gives depth to humor.’

‘Why, it even carries the implicit endorsement of the US Secretary of State.’

‘The attention on young middle class protestors was far less direct but often implicit.’

‘Expanding debate and liberating speech is at least implicit in the mandate of any university governing body.’

‘As subtle as implicit attitudes are, they can cause serious real-world damage.’

‘It has always been implicit in television that the programs are just delivery vehicles for the advertising.’

‘The tradeoff I have described has always been implicit in the law, but it now may become explicit.’

‘The implicit social connections that blog linking imply are public: they are there for anyone to see, and the individuals involved actively create those links with that in mind.’

‘The implicit message is always the same: it is your capitalist (imperialist, racist, whatever) society that is the true enemy of the people.’

‘The implicit presumption was always that politicised corrections for market failures would work perfectly.’

‘Her earlier work exploited the tensions of flatness in paintings of punctures, protrusions and simple forms whose symbolic possibilities were always implicit.’

‘It seems to me that they were fundamentally asking why we need to have 100 pages of legislation that set out how a Crown entity must report when it has always been implicit that that agency must report anyway.’

‘It always maintains an implicit threat of violence.’

‘There is an implicit question as to whether perfections are coherent such that they can exist in one person.’

‘The official focus on the ageing question, with the implicit notion that people have a responsibility to reproduce a new generation of elder-carers, contributes to the instrumental view of parenthood.’

‘The implicit question is whether this move can prod uncabled Australians out of their pay TV inertia and get subscription television's hoof in the door of more homes.’



2 Always to be found in; essentially connected with.



Examples: 

‘the values implicit in the school ethos’

‘In any case, whether or not our present lethal lack of cohesion can be attributed to the rise of multiculturalism, the moral relativism implicit in that view always made it a dubious position to hold.’

‘This would also provide tremendous fodder for analysis of the social networks implicit in links.’

‘This view is so fundamentally flawed yet so implicit in the Australian mentality that it seems almost impossible to efface or even moderate.’

‘Although used mainly in secular schools, this book calls for a searching inquiry into the political and social morality implicit in the American constitutional order.’

‘Discourses reflect viewpoints that are implicit in social movements and cultural and political institutions in our society, and change as ideas and values shift.’

‘Civil and political rights may constitute the condition for and thus be implicit in economic and social rights.’

‘The impression is that we are witnesses after the fact and once again we naturally construct a hypothetical narrative, its tragedy implicit in the necessarily tawdry ingredients.’

‘For, as Bataille says, ‘it takes an iron nerve to perceive the connection between the promise of life implicit in eroticism and the sensuous aspect of death’.’

‘The notions of transaction and reciprocity-I do for you what you do for me-are also implicit in moral concepts like the golden rule, the social contract, and enlightened selfinterest.’

‘While implicit in both the Generalized Model and social marketing models, this involves formative and summative evaluation.’

‘There are other assumptions implicit in the language used to describe community capacity and social capital.’

‘It is only to say that his norms were not implicit in any notion of the ‘social’.’

‘This characteristic was implicit in the women's concerns for meeting basic human needs for their families and their description of making use of the resources in their environment.’

‘Jung intuitively felt this pointed to an acausal archetypal order at the root of all phenomena which is responsible for the meaningfulness implicit in the coincidence of associated physical and mental events.’

‘In my view, efficiency is implicit in the concept of sustainability, which is ingrained in the bill's purpose and elsewhere.’

‘One could dwell on the fact that it contains several inherent contradictions and that the numbers implicit in the proposals don't add up.’

‘Scarcity is also implicit in anti-globalisation arguments against the development of global water markets.’

‘What assumptions are implicit in these sorts of relationships between subjects and objects (computers)?’

‘The contradictions implicit in this argument are fairly obvious.’

‘A legitimate value would have to be one implicit in the nature of legal reasoning itself.’



3 With no qualification or question; absolute.



Examples: 

‘an implicit faith in God’

‘I have further narrowed the field of important questions by following some implicit principles.’

‘The patient has read a bit, is very anxious, and reaches the doctor most often imagining the worst and with implicit faith in this ‘worker of miracles’.’

‘He has implicit faith in his advice so in spite of many people's doubts and reservations, it is now as successful and professional a partnership as there is on tour.’

‘The young intelligentsia refuse to place implicit faith in God and begin to ask why and wherefore.’

‘As Mom faced her illness, she did so in a spirit of fortitude based on an implicit faith and a godly life.’

‘How many times have you read those words, which have become a flippant phrase which contains a hint of both the scepticism and implicit faith we have in science?’

‘This modern young man has implicit faith in God.’

‘Her implicit faith in others allows her to approach Mateo without fear, rather than to cower away from him like the other inhabitants of the tenement.’

‘It was her sympathy, her love for him, and her implicit faith in him, which made the Prophet love her dearly.’

‘My faith in prayers took an awful tumble that day, and I doubt whether implicit faith ever returned.’

‘As truths, they are worthy of the most implicit faith that can be given to human testimony.’

‘But if you agree to this, I'll need your complete, total, and implicit trust.’

‘The message was basic to the Victorian army: that systematic uniformity and implicit obedience were essential.’

‘The quality of training programs was variable, but they always contained the implicit belief in the rightness of obedience to orders from those above, and the threat of dismissal if rules were not followed.’



4 (of a function) not expressed directly in terms of independent variables.



Examples: 

‘This paper contains his famous deep implicit function theorem.’

‘Actually, since the domain of a function is usually implicit from context, putting the * in front of an extended function is slightly redundant and thus usually omitted.’

‘In figure 2b, the implicit function is plotted for different values of q.’

‘The foundation for such an study is provided by the implicit function theorem, formulated below.’



Related Forms: 

implicitly, adverb
implicitness or implicity, noun
unimplicitly, adverb
implicitness, implicity, noun



French: 

 implicite
 ses paroles laissaient deviner ses sentiments
 total, absolu



44. Statute

1 A written law passed by a legislative body.



Examples: 

‘the Act consolidated statutes dealing with non-fatal offences’

mass noun ‘immunities granted to trade unions by statute’

‘Rules are written to reflect the statutes passed in legislation.’

‘Congress has passed statutes making a defendant pay the fee of a plaintiff's lawyer if the plaintiff prevails in the case.’

‘It is not entirely clear from this paper, it may be clear from the original: is this form of lease prescribed by statute or regulation?’

‘In choosing between these submissions we must first remind ourselves of the relevant provisions of statute and subordinate legislation.’

‘It is one thing to prosecute to conviction and to take positive steps authorised by statute to confiscate the proceeds of crime from the convicted defendant.’

‘What I am saying is there may be a difference conceptually in placing a limitation on jurisdiction conferred by statute?’

‘We have precisely the same structure - a monopolistic, representation body endorsed by statute.’

‘In reading the objectives, instructions and guidance the court is not construing a statute, or even subordinate legislation.’

‘The provision or the ability to suspend a sentence is provided by statute.’

‘The jurisdiction to stay, although introduced by statute in the field of arbitration agreements, is in origin an equitable remedy.’

‘But in all other contexts in ordinary criminal appellate statutes with which this country is familiar, what the jury did may not be ignored.’

‘In my judgment, that argument does less than justice to the fact that the review procedure is provided for by statute.’

‘Thus statutes were passed with the object of giving landlords a return sufficient to induce them to make accommodation available.’

‘The principles relating to interpretation of statutes require that the words of a statute be given the meaning which they bore at the time the statute was passed.’

‘You can have a common law in the statute, I suppose, in some loose sense.’

‘It is not suggested in the present case that there was any liability for failure to exercise this power, either under the statute or at common law.’

‘However the issue is decided by construction of the section of the statute not the common law.’

‘With this strong new federal interpretation of the act, states may now be able to add language to their own rules and statutes regarding state's control of exotic species.’

‘Parts 2 and 3 dealing with statutes and rules are already available in the market at lower prices.’

‘That seemingly innocuous statute implicitly included rules for classification and censorship.’



1.1 A rule of an organization or institution.



Examples: 

‘the appointment will be subject to the statutes of the university’

‘Both sides claim the backing of World Trade Organization statutes for their positions.’

‘Ironically, it appeared to have no effect on the organisation's statutes or policy positions.’

‘Today, they are marketing themselves as ‘financial cooperatives,’ even though they are organized under different statutes.’

‘Many states have statutes or administrative rules about some specific content to be required in medical records, and these can and must be tailored into any CBE system.’

‘Practice standards also can establish restrictions through statutes, rules, or both, on the practice of an occupation with the use of special enforcement.’

‘This language suggests that a state legislature could even ignore the results of a presidential election conducted under its own rules - the very statutes it enacted.’

‘Gone were the smothering rules and statutes of the Church.’

‘Most custom is supported by statutes of organizations, churches, or clubs, if not guaranteed by the state.’

‘By ruling the statute unconstitutional, the decision affects every county in New Jersey.’

‘Parliament's own rules - though not statute - give the courts that much consideration.’

‘Indeed, it seems certain that the major Catholic institutions are not going to change their by-laws or statutes to accommodate the requirements for the mandate.’

‘Thirty-eight states revised and re-enacted their death penalty laws after the 1972 Court ruling that all but a few capital statutes were unconstitutional.’

‘The founding meeting approved a statute and leadership of the organisation, banker Emil Hursev told journalists.’

‘Similar to the Asquith Colleges, they were governed by French university statutes, and the staff members were accorded the rights of French academics.’

‘He worked hard to reform the statutes of Cambridge University and, when the Government set up a Commission to propose reforms, he was appointed to it.’

‘They claimed members were not given prior notice and the university's academic council must be consulted before the governing body can make changes to university statutes.’

‘Alexander, disliking harsh measures, in 1863 approved a new set of university statutes.’

‘There may be the rare exception, such as a working sheep dog, which could fall within the statute, but the exception only proves the rule.’

‘The Allies drafted a statute that laid out the rules for trial procedure and defined the crimes to be tried.’

‘The powers bestowed by this statute are completely unlimited, restricted by no law or institution.’



1.2 (in biblical use) a law or decree made by a sovereign, or by God.



Examples: 

‘‘I incline my heart to perform Thy statutes,’ is a verse that occurs in several forms in the psalm.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 loi 
 loi   de prescription, prescription   légale
 règle 
 le règlement, les statuts  mpl



45. Acoustic

1 Relating to sound or the sense of hearing.



Examples: 

‘dogs have a much greater acoustic range than humans’

‘Their underwater acoustic sense and echo-location skills are legendary.’

‘The place has been designed with a great acoustic sense.’

‘Quickly sensing the acoustic mismatch, the woman closes the bathroom door, muting the water sounds.’

‘But even when they separate they remain in acoustic range.’

‘The hard terrazzo floors and glass walls that border the terraced atrium bounce ambient noise around, creating a sense of acoustic community.’

‘But very sensitive hearing is necessary to hear all the acoustic cues in speech sounds.’

‘Once the pod is in acoustic range, Luna will be released in hopes he reunites with his family.’

‘Microjets can be powered by compressed air, thermal bubbles, and even acoustic waves.’

‘Such samples display a large number of acoustic modes, with little separation in frequency.’

‘As it happens, these neurons are also very sensitive to the acoustic boundaries between speech sounds, as are monkeys and human infants.’

‘To find out, the research team devised an experiment using an electronic shaker that converts acoustic sounds into vibrations.’

‘To achieve this coordination, songbirds must open and close their beaks in register with the acoustic frequency of the sound being produced.’

‘Other acoustic experiences, such as the hearing of human voices, may have been due to direct electric stimulation of the auditory cortex.’

‘Until now, no one had measured the absolute acoustic profile of the human body - that is, how the body scatters sound waves independently of where it happens to be.’

‘It was an excellent environment for the seismic acoustic and infrared passive sensors once you could get them into the ground.’

‘On the other hand, cooling makes acoustic noise, which human beings don't tolerate well.’

‘Thus, territorial male bullfrogs do not appear to assess an opponent's fighting ability based solely on the fundamental frequency of acoustic signals.’

‘Today, enemy targets can be engaged at ranges where they are seen on an electronic device solely as an item of electromagnetic, infrared, or acoustic data.’

‘At 50° C an acoustic alarm sounds and the PC system shuts itself down at temperatures above 53° C.’

‘Although it is impossible to prevent many diseases that affect the hearing, it is possible to reduce the risk of acoustic trauma (hearing loss from loud noise).’



1.1 (of building materials) used for soundproofing or modifying sound.



Examples: 

‘acoustic tiles’

‘Hard, smooth surfaces are more sound-reflective than rough surfaces, or ones that are covered with fabric or acoustic materials.’

‘Then open-web joists would be installed between the arch segments, and when these were completed acoustic metal decking was attached to the entire assembly.’

‘Then you can start deciding things like where to place furniture and acoustic material, finding a good room that's not a hallway next to a jackhammer and so on.’

‘When acoustic texture material is wet, asbestos fibers are withheld from release into the air.’

‘Interior surfaces are of pine and birch plywood boarding and acoustic wood louvres.’

‘Lead paint, which existed mostly on the window frames and in acoustic tile, were carefully removed, and the asbestos is being either removed or encapsulated.’

‘Apparently this quietness was achieved by using ‘sound-deadening materials, additional door seals and acoustic glass’.’

‘Highly light reflective, acoustic tiles let more available light reflect back into the room, and save money in utility costs.’

‘The floor was tiled in striking high quality vitreous tiles from Germany and the ceiling lined with acoustic tiles to minimise sound.’

‘It pertains to the removal of sprayed asbestos coatings used for thermal and acoustic insulation in buildings and on boilers in industrial plants.’

‘But even genuine acoustic foam comes in different fire-resistant grades.’

‘The ceiling itself mirrored the floor - white acoustic tile, smooth and nearly unbroken.’

‘My room came with a vast stain spreading across the acoustic tiles in the ceiling.’

‘As a patient, you spend a great deal of time, sometimes days at a time in severe situations, flat on your back and staring at stained acoustic tiles.’

‘Innovations within the product lines of acoustic tile manufacturers allow for a more clean, crisp uncluttered aesthetic.’

‘When noise reduction is the goal, it is important to look at the acoustic tiles' NRC or CAC ratings.’

‘A smug smile on her face, she reached up and found her grip on the acoustic tile.’

‘There was a bullet hole in one of the stained acoustic tiles there.’

‘You should use an airless gun to prime and paint your acoustic ceiling, by angling your gun slightly and spraying it lightly in all directions.’

‘It's not recommended to roll paint on an acoustic ceiling, as it is very porous.’



1.2 (of a device or system) utilizing sound energy in its operation.



Examples: 

‘Just as camera lenses focus light, acoustic lenses reshape sound, spreading it horizontally to increase the sensation of space.’

‘In contrast to the centrality of the plan, the ceiling evokes the axiality of traditional church spaces and generates a remarkable degree of drama through acoustic devices.’

‘At Oxford University, researchers have developed an acoustic camera that builds up visual pictures using sound.’

‘Just Recently researchers were able to determine the damage to the ship by imaging the sunken liner with an acoustic device known as a sub-bottom profiler.’

‘‘That tide gauge uses an acoustic device to record the level of the sea's surface,’ she explains.’

‘The system propagates an acoustic energy beam, which the antenna array directs against one of the buildings.’

‘That plan will see a ban on driftnets in some EU waters and the use of acoustic devices, or pingers, to repel dolphins and related species from driftnets.’

‘This structure is derived from the melon of other odontocetes, and like the melon, may serve as a sort of acoustic lens.’



1.3 (of an explosive mine or other weapon) able to be set off by sound waves.



Examples: 

‘Once this had been introduced, the Germans began to use acoustic mines which were detonated by the sound of a ship's propeller acting on a diaphragm within them.’

‘This is the noise-maker for sweeping acoustic mines.’

‘Agate generates the acoustic signature of any ship in order to trigger acoustic mines.’

‘When the Second World War broke out, Crick was put to work for the British Navy developing magnetic and acoustic mines for use against German submarines and ships.’

‘At the outbreak of the Second World War, he transferred to the Admiralty, designing magnetic and acoustic mines in which the circuitry would enable enemy ships and sweeps to be distinguished.’

‘The start of a three week blockage of the Suez Canal by the Germans placing magnetic and acoustic mines there.’

‘Current capabilities may limit future acoustic weapons to close-in engagements due to range and size of the required equipment.’

‘So, on the night of 3 November, 1940, magnetic and acoustic mines parachuted down from the Heinkels into the sea close to Milford Haven.’

‘Alternately, the use of high power microwave technology, acoustic weapons or nonlethal chemicals might be called for.’

‘What about nonlethal devices such as acoustic or heat ‘weapons’?’

‘During the war, he joined the British Admiralty Research Laboratories where he designed acoustic and magnetic mines.’



2 (of popular music or musical instruments) not having electrical amplification.



Examples: 

‘a sad, gentle acoustic ballad’

‘old-fashioned acoustic instruments’

‘I listen to as much acoustic music as electronic these days; I like to keep an open mind.’

‘It's a beautiful album, and solo acoustic music doesn't get much better than this.’

‘It's a total transition - he's gone from acoustic jazz into electric jazz-rock.’

‘Murray, who is no longer with a band, played a set of rocksteady and reggae tunes on acoustic guitar.’

‘It's a superb example of acoustic jazz ensemble playing and lovely multi-horn arranging.’

‘Because the band which has defined the sound of contemporary bluegrass over the last decade or so raises the bar in acoustic music with every new record.’

‘While another strong contender for best track on the album is Black Mountain, a haunting ballad built around a strong acoustic guitar riff and some heady stabs of violin.’

‘You got your folky-picked acoustic guitar riff, check.’

‘It's driven by a great bassline, some excellent acoustic guitar riffs and finds Nic Denson's vocals at their most spellbinding.’

‘Neil Young says Jansch did for the acoustic guitar what Jimi Hendrix did for the electric guitar.’

‘‘St Christopher’ gently swings to a jazzy acoustic guitar and resembles nothing less than prime period Joni Mitchell.’

‘It's been a while since an album has taken such great lengths to show that there is some tangible relation between the worlds of electronic and acoustic music.’

‘Appropriately, the movements are accompanied by live electronic and acoustic music.’

‘the Pacific women's trio Manuhiri from New Zealand and Tonga, with their contemporary acoustic music and lush harmonies.’

‘In some quieter moments acoustic and slide guitars give them a breezy alt-country feel, while other songs seem designed for dancing.’

‘While many musicians of his generation were turning their back on acoustic music, he remained a loyal folkie.’

‘He also switched between acoustic and electric guitar regularly throughout the night.’

‘For anybody who likes playing the acoustic guitar, this album is a must.’

‘This album is pure laid back grooves, acoustic guitars, and blissed out melodies.’

‘Yay, it's got both acoustic guitars and electronics!’



1 The properties or qualities of a room or building that determine how sound is transmitted in it.



Examples: 

‘the Symphony Hall has perfect acoustics’

‘Wavy perforated metal panels aid the room's acoustics yet appear to float off of the brick walls.’

‘However, the acoustics in that room where dreadful (very high ceiling), but Eric and Andre (2nd guitar and bass) did a good job and put on a good show.’

‘His voice, as heard over the television, is not ideally modulated, but it was probably adapted to the acoustics in the room as he heard his own voice.’

‘Good sound guys can figure out the acoustics during sound check relatively quickly, but that's only going to go so far.’

‘But the shape of the rooms created terrible acoustics.’

‘The cave's acoustics intensified the sound, causing her to become fully aware of the headache she was trying to ignore in the hope of placating it.’

‘They all resonate at the same pitch, yet produce a constant, layered dissonance due to the room's inconsistent acoustics.’

‘The acoustics within a room depend on the key issues of reverberation, room shape, and interior noise control.’

‘The acoustics in this room sometimes are a little deceptive.’

‘The courtroom was huge, but the acoustics in the room were good and even the slightest bit of breathing could be heard.’

‘The acoustics in the living room, thanks to its high ceiling and scant furniture, were incredible.’

‘I look at this place and think, ‘jeez, from the perfect acoustics and sightlines of the Roman amphitheaters, it's all been downhill from there.’’

‘‘The perfect acoustics in the Heritage Centre make it the ideal venue for storytelling, music and song,’ says Ms Byrne.’

‘The attention to detail is magnificent and manifests itself in everything from the programme to the seating arrangements to the acoustics.’

‘The beautiful opera house claims to be one of the best in Europe, with perfect acoustics and frescoes painted by Karoly Lotz.’

‘‘The acoustics in this house can play tricks with sounds,’ the earl continued.’

‘Luckily the room was not without excellent acoustics (even if her ears were still ringing a bit).’

‘The venue, Victoria Hall, is a beautiful 101-year-old local landmark which has superb acoustics and facilities and lends itself perfectly to this event.’

‘Unfortunately, the debate was hampered by the acoustics in the hall, and many of the participants, myself included, were unable to follow much of what was said.’

‘The Cathedral is a beautiful venue for concerts and recitals and all musicians who play there comment on the wonderful acoustic of the building.’



2 The branch of physics concerned with the properties of sound.



Examples: 

‘Tyndall lectured on acoustics’

‘Current advances in science and technology, particularly in the area of acoustics and high technologies, enable a more complete utilization of the audio band.’

‘He studied mathematical physics and acoustics producing a major study in 1862 which looked at musical theory and the perception of sound.’

‘Thus, the field of acoustics covers a vast array of different areas of use, and they are constantly expanding.’

‘Thompson, for example, could easily have written a history of technological changes in the history of sound and acoustics.’

‘Swedenborg joined his mysticism with a keen interest in natural science, especially acoustics.’

‘Duhamel worked on partial differential equations and applied his methods to the theory of heat, to rational mechanics and to acoustics.’

‘Unit Conversion Utility - consists of 47 electronic conversions in seven categories useful for forecasting, acoustics and nautical science.’

‘Since that time, considerable advances have been made in the science of underwater acoustics and the hardware used for the detection of faint signals.’

‘Music and the science of sound and acoustics stand on the brink of huge change.’

‘In the following article, Matthew Malsky analyzes the effect of digital technology on the science of acoustics in pursuit of a ‘real’ listening experience.’

‘Rayleigh developed laboratory courses in heat, electricity and magnetism, properties of matter, optics, and acoustics.’

‘He specializes in ocean acoustics, signal processing and physical oceanography.’

‘It was Murray who taught Alexander Graham Bell the basics of acoustics and electricity and thus was the grandfather, if not the father, of the telephone.’

‘Driven to match his father's prominence as a speech analyst, he undertook research in acoustics and speech with the aid of electrical and mechanical devices.’

‘He studied continuum mechanics, lunar theory with Clairaut, the three body problem, elasticity, acoustics, the wave theory of light, hydraulics, and music.’

‘During World War I Fubini studied the accuracy of artillery fire and these investigations led him on to work on acoustics and electricity.’



Related Forms: 

nonacoustically, adverb
unacoustically, adverb
nonacoustical, adjective
acoustically, adverb
nonacoustic, adjective, noun
unacoustic, adjective
unacoustical, adjective



French: 

 acoustique
 acousticien  m, acousticiennef
acousticienne
 guitare   sèche



46. Caption

1 A title or brief explanation accompanying an illustration, cartoon, or poster.



Examples: 

‘he designed a series of posters with the caption: ‘No One is Innocent’’

‘Bournemouth Council now uses cartoon captions on its posters to attract attention.’

‘The captions accompanying posters (which showed streams of bright sunlight through the clouds) were written in mock bible-speak.’

‘Every key work is illustrated and accompanied by an explanatory caption.’

‘The names of persons in the photographs should be clearly labelled on the back along with captions, titles or explanations.’

‘The illustrations are often accompanied by explanatory captions which detail information not found in the text and this makes the book interesting to page through.’

‘Interviews, explanations and captions accompany and illuminate throughout.’

‘Each picture is accompanied by the informative captions describing the history the area covered in this book.’

‘One important artwork that represents that style is highlighted on each poster, along with four smaller reproductions with short explanatory captions and a timeline.’

‘Brief descriptive captions would have enhanced the understanding of the life of the people and perhaps added more understanding to the text of the folktales as well.’

‘The caption to the illustration on page 185 describes Tom Thomson as ‘a distinguished member of the Canadian artists known as the Group of Seven.’’

‘Along with information, the paintings which were on display at the India Habitat Centre on June 21 and 22, were accompanied with captions, anecdotes and even poems.’

‘Their expressive, almost-human faces and brief, tragic captions brought me to tears, and I had to sit down and wipe my eyes.’

‘Maybe it's not so easy writing witty captions to New Yorker cartoons.’

‘The caption over your illustration of the proposed extension to the library at the University of York would surely be more apt if it read 1920s revisited.’

‘When I looked at the cartoon I tried to come up with all the aspects of it; I tried to incorporate the whole cartoon into the little caption.’

‘The caption to the cartoon says, ‘Awkward predicament for you to solve.’’

‘Now he's showing some other older work - similar to the picture above but this other series contrasts images of rich and poor people accompanied by captions written by them.’

‘Each image will be accompanied by a caption and a small digital image of the building as it looks today.’

‘The photographs date from 1895 through 1906; they are accompanied by captions and entries about Chinese American history.’

‘Pain Free in Six Weeks is liberally interspersed with light-hearted illustrations and informative captions.’



1.1 A piece of text appearing on a cinema or television screen as part of a film or broadcast.



Examples: 

‘the programme has a closing caption thanking the university for its cooperation’

‘The film, punctuated by captions highlighting what the party considers key achievements, wasn't so much about setting out key pledges but setting a tone and feeling for Labour's protagonists.’

‘To judge by the Estonian television captions, the first day of the Leaving Cert was marked by the coming together of two trade unions, EESTI and IIRIMAA.’

‘And on the simplest level, there was a disconcerting clash between the postmodern textuality dispensed by the singers and the humble captions on the screen.’

‘Dear BBC, that's not the best caption to use on screen for the latest information about the Space Shuttle disaster, is it?’

‘However, according to the archived video of the ad linked above, media reports and interviews with a high-level campaign official and political experts, the caption did not appear in the original ad.’

‘It's only in the second third of the film - when the captions disappear and Slim's on the run - that Enough becomes the film it should've been.’

‘For any broadcast program with TV captions, you can immediately reuse them, which is something nobody is doing.’

‘Display text captions with each video stream.’

‘Prior to this weather charts had been presented on screen with captions.’

‘In the first scene of the film a caption informs us that the events take place in ‘Southern Italy, 1978.’’

‘A caption flashes across the screen listing the substitutes for both teams.’

‘A static caption on screen for several minutes on end is unusual today but was a staple of television graphics from the fifties to the early eighties.’

‘The Pentagon became adept at supplying video-game-like pictures of U.S. missile strikes at the same time that it began to provide the large-type captions on TV screens.’

‘The caption, ‘Six Months Later’ appears on the screen for a moment.’

‘Apparently this caption appeared on Sky News last night.’

‘The new version also does not display the lyrics of the national anthem on the screen, ‘because the captions would interfere with the film's visuals,’ Lin said.’

‘First, a note on the film's opening caption, which reads, ‘Based on a true story.’’

‘I started to pay more attention and noticed that they had captions at the top and the bottom of the screen.’

‘By rights, the lower half of the TV screen should then have been filled by a caption reading: ‘CHEERS!’’

‘Remember when newsreaders just read the news, without the caption and the illustration and the crawl at the bottom of the screen?’



1.2 The heading of a legal document.



Examples: 

‘Deeds, captions on cases, and other legal forms like subpoenas all serve the purpose of giving notice, which is how lawyers and the courts communicate with the public.’

‘The case is notable not for the momentousness of the underlying legal question but for its amusing caption.’

‘Defendants' motion to remove Kama's name from the caption of this case is ALLOWED.’

‘If yes, provide details of each case or proceeding on an attached sheet, including caption, court and index or docket number, the particulars, and the disposition.’



 Provide (an illustration) with a title or explanation.



Examples: 

with two objects ‘the photograph was captioned ‘Three little maids’’

‘The photographs are carefully captioned, providing simple but interesting details about the plants and creatures.’

‘But the New York Times admired Magnussen's design when it was introduced and captioned its illustration of it ‘The Lights and Shadows of New York.’’

‘Informative text provides a running commentary, and each photo is captioned with historical details.’

‘Apparently bored in a cabinet meeting, he captioned one sketch of John Foster Dulles with the then popular little axiom, ‘Dull, duller, Dulles.’’

‘I went to Yahoo to search for her pic, and a stupid fan of hers (I suppose he is deluded) captioned the photos I found as ‘Very very pretty!’’

‘None of the photographs was captioned or identified in any way, so that they posed, innocently, as a generic representation of Cork and Galway at play on a sunny afternoon.’

‘I don't think the 31 officials were aware that the photographs were incorrectly captioned, I certainly was not.’

‘The painting is captioned with a quote from Nichols, explaining that all nationality disappears as a combatant drowns.’

‘They've been taking similar liberties recently in their entertainment sections, captioning photographs of celebrities with made-up quotes.’

‘The next day, the newspaper captioned his photo, ‘Baby Doll.’’

‘And the few reproduced images are captioned with the name of the copyright holder of the photographic reproduction, but not with the location of the original work.’

‘It wasn't an issue with the robot photos, but some photographs are captioned with quite extraordinary zeal and passion.’

‘The photographs are actually captioned and identify the unfamiliar faces - an unusual courtesy.’

‘Indeed, Natural History wrongly captioned the photo on page 76.’

‘Even more surprising is that some of the illustrations, including Figure 3, are not captioned at all.’

‘He is fiercely protective of his pictures, printing each one himself, handling them with protective gloves, captioning them meticulously while Shelly records them.’

‘Because the stories were laid out and captioned by editors - not photographers - they generally do not reveal the circumstances behind the photos or give the photographer's viewpoint.’

‘Min advised that photos as published were not of this incident and were captioned so.’

‘Now that the contest is under way, every week features three cartoons in various stages of being captioned.’

‘For example, a photograph of an all-female press club board of governors was captioned.’



Related Forms: 

supercaption, noun
subcaption, noun
captionless, adjective
uncaptioned, adjective



French: 

 légende 
 sous-titre  m
 sous-titre  m
 mettre une légende à,   légender
  sous-titrer



47. Akin

1 Of similar character.



Examples: 

‘something akin to gratitude overwhelmed her’

‘genius and madness are akin’

‘The limestone pavement gives the island a character akin to the Burren with a similar flora.’

‘This gives it a unique character, more akin to a board game such as chess than to a normal card game.’

‘As Ray puts it, this is akin to the change and variation occurring among the characters in a story.’

‘It was his character which was unpredictable, akin to a time-bomb waiting to go off.’

‘That's the way he characterised your approach and he said that was akin to blackmail.’

‘It's more akin to buying a lottery ticket than paying for a service.’

‘Since the collapse of Enron in January 2002, maintenance has become more akin to life support.’

‘Something akin to the process of declaring saints of the Roman Catholic Church.’

‘In fact, the Chinese model is akin to the Gandhian scheme of decentralised development.’

‘At the moment the situation is very much akin to the tail wagging the dog.’

‘The effect is somewhat akin to accelerating through various 20th century musical schools.’

‘Salvaging good news from such a disaster may be akin to pulling a shopping trolley out of a canal - what exactly do you gain?’

‘But within the Labour tribe, it is akin to smashing a sacred tablet of stone.’

‘There are areas of every American city that you steer clear of or hurry through because they are more akin to third than first world.’

‘Winstone proclaims his love for West Ham as he tops up his tan by a Spanish pool, looking something akin to an orange Smart car.’

‘Goodwin describes the process as being akin to working on a jigsaw.’

‘Without having read his comments, something akin to that feeling always propelled me on.’

‘This is an experience that cannot be replicated outside a university or something at least akin to it.’

‘With 12 independently administered areas, the city is more akin to a series of linked villages.’

‘When it comes to knocking the stuffing out of rival teams, Hearts are becoming something akin to specialists.’



1.1 Related by blood.



Examples: 

‘my parents were akin, probably half cousins’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 qui ressemble à, qui tient de
 apparenté à



48. Albeit

 Though.



Examples: 

‘he was making progress, albeit rather slowly’

‘Back to the theme of homicide, albeit in a world rather more familiar than that of Minority Report.’

‘It's a concept album in that it tells a story - albeit with a rather lame twist at the end.’

‘They were getting it, albeit slowly, but the results were mixed to say the least.’

‘Sports news is one area where some improvement is needed, albeit really rather slight.’

‘Negotiation and mediation seems to be solving the Irish question albeit very slowly.’

‘But if there are any pluses in this at least now people will hear the truth, albeit in a court of law.’

‘The area continued as a centre for music into the Seventies and beyond, albeit on a much smaller scale.’

‘It was a no-turning-back speech, albeit spoken with an emotional catch in the throat.’

‘It seems to have washed its face and opened its doors to the outside world - albeit with caution.’

‘They can also guarantee a place in European competition next season, albeit the Uefa Cup.’

‘It was a clean-cut, agreeable dish albeit a touch bland for more adventurous palates.’

‘He has done that in 14 years as a test cricketer, albeit subject to selectorial whims.’

‘The presence of live actors and real objects anchors you, albeit tenuously, in the world.’

‘Throughout this year retail sales have shown a rise, albeit a declining one, on levels of a year ago.’

‘It has all the hustle and bustle of a typical Gordon Brown day, albeit in unusual surroundings.’

‘The report deluged him with criticism, albeit worded in the silky prose of a veteran mandarin.’

‘The same trend applies, albeit to a less impressive extent, in the abbreviated format.’

‘To a very large extent the BBC is a government corporation albeit at a couple of steps removed.’

‘Six famous women who, albeit unconsciously, gave us a classic of school literature.’

‘We hear a song from our past and are transported back to a memory from long ago, albeit a good or a bad one.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 bien que, encore que, quoique
 une œuvre impressionnante bien qu'imparfaite or quoiqu'imparfaite



49. Mosaic

1 A picture or pattern produced by arranging together small pieces of stone, tile, glass, etc.



Examples: 

‘mosaics on the interior depict scenes from the Old Testament’

mass noun ‘the walls and vaults are decorated by marble and mosaic’

‘For floor mosaics, stone remained the dominant material.’

‘After the war he returned to easel painting and was also active as a book and magazine illustrator and as a designer of mosaics and stained glass.’

‘The themes of heraldry, religion, astronomy, astrology and the natural world are expressed in murals, mosaics, stained glass, intricate woodwork and stone and marble carvings.’

‘Glass mosaic tiles add a translucency and complexity that ceramic cannot match.’

‘A random pattern of glass mosaic tiles adds a splash of color to the bathroom between the girl's bedroom and the shared playroom.’

‘This sprawling citadel, looming high above the Andalusian city, boasts a dazzling array of mosaics, with tiles arranged in beautiful, intricate patterns, and is a testament to the beauty of mathematics.’

‘These include paintings, drawings, pottery, sculptures, mosaics, wall hangings, wood carvings, glass works and leather pieces, felt art, jewellery and much more.’

‘No ancient medium is more difficult to present in the museum setting than floor mosaics.’

‘Containing preserved frescoes and opulent glass mosaics, this remarkable archaeological discovery provides a rare insight into the daily life and culture of the period.’

‘For £25,000 upwards you can have a reinforced-concrete pool, lined with stone, tiles or mosaic, which should last 25 to 30 years.’

‘In the fine arts, the cartoon is a full-sized preliminary drawing for a work to be executed afterward in fresco, oil, mosaic, stained glass, or tapestry.’

‘Executed in a mixture of black and white marble, red, orange and brown terracotta and blue and green glass, the mosaics retain their voluptuous, dazzling intensity.’

‘Down here is the swimming pool, which is 41 ft long and elegantly lined with mosaic tiles, reminiscent of the Roman style.’

‘On his island retreat he finds a mosaic of the Tree of Life, the beautiful tree laden with fruit ignored by Adam and Eve in favour of the Tree of Knowledge.’

‘A stunning mosaic of the Last Supper, towering 80 ft over the altar, has also been cleaned and new lighting installed to bring the church back to life.’

‘In that year she traveled to Venice and commissioned the Salviati company to design the elaborate interior and exterior mosaic decoration for the church.’

‘One of the city's oldest pools, the Yeoville swimming pool, has received a sparkling, multi-toned blue mosaic facelift.’

‘The amber mosaic panels between the long mirrors and gilding have been painstakingly reproduced and constructed by Russian craftsmen.’

‘Miniature mosaic icons, as suggested by preserved examples, were produced for a very limited time in Byzantium and were highly prized.’

‘In the case of the miniature mosaic icons, these details allow the reader to scrutinize the production technique of this exacting art form.’

‘Like any mosaic it is a product of countless pieces.’



1.1 A colourful and variegated pattern.



Examples: 

‘the bird's plumage was a mosaic of slate-grey, blue, and brown’

‘In a contest for space, some of the anemones, sponges and barnacles sit on top of each other, creating a mosaic of contrasting colours.’

‘The ground was a mosaic of colours, as if haphazardly thrown together by a careless artist.’

‘The valley drops away below in a mosaic of yellow grass and green pastureland, and in the distance the sun glints off the Pacific Ocean.’

‘Even after flooding it looks lovely, a mosaic of meadows, traditionally managed fields and ancient woodland.’

‘The surrounding landscape is a mosaic of blue, white and pink soft corals, punctuated by arresting gorgonians, some exceeding 2m.’

‘She stopped playing, wondering how much time she had left to practice, and her eyes were greeted by a mosaic of colors that blanketed the entire room.’



1.2 A combination of diverse elements forming a more or less coherent whole.



Examples: 

‘a cultural mosaic’

‘Smith's profile of Muslims and Muslim communities reveals the rich mosaic of diverse ethnic groups of immigrants and converts.’

‘We are sensitive also to the values that ensure that our nation, a mosaic of diverse cultures and faiths, survives and thrives.’

‘We go further when we revitalize the bonds of the social connection by making kin of strangers, by embracing diversity that enriches the mosaic of our national unity.’

‘The Parisian suburbs are a mosaic of highly diverse socioprofessional and urban realities.’

‘Their traditions are diverse and their contribution to the bright mosaic of Indian culture commendable.’

‘The editors have constructed a diverse and complex mosaic of African American experiences.’

‘They called for voices that can speak for the diverse identities that make up the mosaic of humanity.’

‘The Indian rural market is a complex mosaic of mind-sets, cultures, and lifestyles.’

‘But, their lives can change for the better if they come to India, which has a rich mosaic of culture and tradition.’

‘His discursive poetry touches many factors, thus transforming a linear story into a mosaic of elements.’

‘The complex mosaic of traditions, religions, cultures, ethnicities and histories in the Arab world is lost to US and Israeli strategic planners.’

‘It is our hope that through deeper understanding, the diverse structural mosaic of Canadian society can be strengthened.’

‘The mosaic of events making up Indonesia's history becomes a clear pattern on which Indonesia has been designed as a nation.’

‘This is a poignant mosaic of testimonies performed by a very strong and versatile cast.’

‘Today's Europe is a rich mosaic of cultures, ethnicities, and religions.’

‘He added that grazing of the area would be a better option than mowing because it would allow a mosaic of habitats - including wildflowers and grasses - to flourish.’

‘It forms a mosaic of various habitats from woodland and ponds, to herb-rich calcareous grassland, resulting in a rich bio-reservoir of flora and fauna.’

‘At the end, the audience was left with the feeling that unlike the usual run of shows which are a mosaic of music and dance, here was something which had a meaning and a message too.’

‘Moore has no narrative, only a mosaic of loosely connected themes.’

‘The new album spans a wide selection of demographics and represents a mosaic of musical influences.’

‘Anderson knows how to amuse us with a mosaic of background details and throwaway lines.’

‘Personal experiences recounted by interviewees and recorded in archival material help to build up a mosaic of life in Germany between 1929 and 1949.’



1.3 An arrangement of photosensitive elements in a television camera.



Examples: 

‘Their camera used a light-sensitive mosaic that was discharged pixel by pixel as an electron beam scanned it, the discharge current intensity being proportional to the light falling on the dot.’



2 An individual (especially an animal) composed of cells of two genetically different types.



Examples: 

‘For example, some people are mosaics: Different cells in their body have different chromosomes.’

‘Not even the almighty gene provided any clear answers, since it was discovered that I was a mosaic, with some cells in my body having the XY genotype and others having XO.’

‘In addition, any one individual is actually a mixture, or mosaic, of DNA, half from each parent.’

‘In some crosses as many as 12.5 % of the somatic mosaics showed such dark patches.’



3 A virus disease that results in leaf variegation in tobacco, maize, sugar cane, and other plants.



Examples: 

‘On the right is a micrograph of the virus that causes tobacco mosaic disease in tobacco plants.’

‘However, its high susceptibility to sugar cane mosaic virus precludes its agronomical use.’

‘Tobacco mosaic is a virus that mottles leaves, stunts plants, and reduces yields.’

‘One of the earliest diseases to occur in seedling wheat will be the soil-borne mosaic virus which is already visible in Oklahoma and Kansas.’

‘Control - Because tomato mosaic is a virus, there is no chemical control for it.’

‘Wheat streak mosaic is the major disease in the southern Panhandle this year.’

‘The origin of the streak mosaic virus infections isn't known, Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said last week.’

‘Soybean mosaic disease caused by SMV occurs worldwide wherever soybean is grown and is regarded as one of the most important soybean diseases in many areas of the world.’

‘Some commercial plantings in New York become unproductive within three years because of mosaic virus while other plantings seem unaffected.’

‘For this reason, producers who hold seed should definitely start out with new seed lots every three to four years or at least have the seed lot tested for Soybean mosaic virus.’

‘And they found a link between one flavonoid and resistance to bean mosaic disease.’

‘Cauliflower mosaic virus is universally used as a ‘promoter’ which amplifies gene activity.’

‘In the field, it's hard to tell the difference between infection from soybean mosaic virus and bean pod mottle virus.’

‘Black raspberries also are very susceptible to mosaic virus.’

‘But during the early years of the 20th century, root rot and mosaic virus nearly destroyed the crop and the industry it supported.’

‘Some southern pea varieties are susceptible to mosaic viruses, powdery mildew, and leaf spot diseases.’

‘It is resistant to mosaic and matures 57 days from seed.’



1 Decorate with a mosaic.



Examples: 

‘he mosaicked the walls, ceilings, and floors’

‘Apart from an amusing shower scene, the action is remarkably stark in setting, confined mainly to the mosaicked floor of a palazzo whose crumbling foundations, strewn with old bones, reveal past grim deeds.’



1.1 Combine (distinct or disparate elements) to form a picture or pattern.



Examples: 

‘the digital data were combined, or mosaicked, to delineate counties’

‘To make a high-resolution image, we must mosaic many high-resolution images.’

‘Once the images are ordered they were georeferenced, then mosaicked together.’



 Denoting an individual composed of cells of two genetically different types.



Examples: 

‘Three alleles were chosen for the generation of mosaic clones on the basis of availability of cytological, genetic, and molecular data, as follows.’

‘The development of mosaic flies clearly illustrates the cell autonomy of sex determination in the somatic cells of Drosophila.’

‘Two lines were unusual in that mutant males regularly produced mosaic progeny that had large patches of somatic tissue lacking the paternal fourth chromosome.’

‘In cases where PCR recombination was suspected to occur uniquely in a single clone, the mosaic clone was removed from consideration.’

‘The analysis of genetically mosaic worms, in which some cells carry a wild-type gene and others are homozygous mutant, can reveal where in the animal a gene acts to prevent the appearance of a mutant phenotype.’

‘Evolutionists do not regard mosaic creatures such as the platypus as evidence of transformation of one basic kind of creature into another.’

‘In Drosophila, mosaic flies have been extensively exploited to dissect signal transduction pathways, to determine cell patterning events and to establish the cell autonomy of gene product.’



 Of or associated with Moses.



Examples: 

‘In the Old Testament, it was part of the Mosaic code that an Israelite could not be indicted and convicted based upon the testimony of one person.’

‘Of a critical turn of mind, he let drop a hint that there might be some doubt as to the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch; the hint was picked up six centuries later by Spinoza and led to modern Bible criticism.’

‘Then model your worship on the Mosaic tabernacle and priesthood.’

‘No matter what generation reads these words, they are commanded to claim the Mosaic history as their own and not merely to recall what their ancestors experienced long ago.’

‘The answer, as was suggested earlier, resides in an understanding of two pivotal covenants in the Old Testament, the Abrahamic and Mosaic covenants.’

‘It pertains to the nature of the Mosaic covenant.’

‘Israel was seen as God's son in the Mosaic covenant.’

‘They believed that there was only one God and that only he should be worshipped by sacrifice or any other means - agreeing with the contents of the first table of the Mosaic commandments.’

‘The Sabbath was, I agree, a covenantal sign for the Mosaic covenant, and it certainly ceased as a 7th day covenant.’

‘But the orienting theme throughout the Mosaic canon is life and its blessings, the affirmation of personhood.’

‘King Solomon's alliances are seen here not as threats to the pristine Mosaic ethos but as props to the peace.’

‘It is not peripheral but central to Mosaic religious experience and thought.’

‘This might be a reason for the Mosaic laws against eating carnivores and shellfish.’

‘I still don't understand the clinging to the Mosaic laws that Christianity still fights tooth and nail to do.’

‘They were seen as traitors because they no longer kept the Mosaic ceremonies or submitted to earthly priests.’

‘Nevertheless, he argued strongly in defense of the Mosaic origin of this primary list of Ten Commandments.’

‘Burnet sought to reconcile a Cartesian-derived historical account of the origins of the Earth with the creation account of the Mosaic tradition.’

‘Conversely, there is the Mosaic prohibition against murder of any kind, coupled with the idea of the body and soul as God's property, and perception of suicide as motivated by despair.’

‘It is certainly not my intention to suggest that the Mosaic plan could be used as an exact blueprint in a society that has moved past the pastoral or agricultural stage.’



Related Forms: 

post-Mosaic, adjective
premosaic, adjective
mosaically, adverb
mosaicist (məˈzeɪɪsɪst), noun



French: 

 mosaïque, de Moïse



50. Construe

1 Interpret (a word or action) in a particular way.



Examples: 

‘his words could hardly be construed as an apology’

‘I find it difficult to see how those words could be construed as a dismissal of the committee's recommendations.’

‘He thought that if the words were construed as including the specific needs of a disabled child it would be necessary in every such case to determine what that child's specific needs were.’

‘While, in the first instance, a consolidating Act is to be construed in the same way as any other, if real doubt as to its legal meaning arises, its words are to be construed as if they remained in the earlier Act.’

‘In essence his submission was that those words were to be construed as being confined to torts and therefore did not include the pleaded acts of knowing assistance.’

‘The washing of dishes and the preaching of the word could both be construed as material expressions of devotion.’

‘Moreover words are to be construed as generally used in the jurisdiction of England and Wales.’

‘High Court strictures cannot be construed as a ban on demonstrations and rallies rather they are meant to hold them in a peaceful manner without causing much trouble to the public.’

‘Any such failure should be construed as contempt of court and should therefore attract prosecution of the police officers involved.’

‘This change was made because the word ‘commitment’ could be construed as a legally-binding promise of continued financial aid.’

‘The definition's use of words like ‘traitor’ cannot be construed as representations of fact.’

‘The right of access to a Court has been construed as including the right to effective enforcement of judgments.’

‘But opponents charged that tossing out the amnesty laws would open a can of worms and that Congress could be construed as overstepping bounds and infringing on the courts' decisions.’

‘I am tempted to ask him whether it could not be construed as denunciatory, but decide to leave its interpretation opened-ended and up to the individual viewer.’

‘The words are not to be construed as if they were provisions in Acts of Parliament.’

‘In such societies, one's eccentric taste is always more likely to be construed as a threat to the community - as a signifier of disloyalty - than as an icon of aspiration.’

‘Or if we sent an e-mail about that issue using our computer, it would probably be construed as a misuse of the computer.’

‘This should not be construed as a lack of interest in this offer of funding.’

‘He said that morale continued to suffer, but when officers raised their concerns with their superiors they were ‘either ignored or dealt with in such a way that can only be construed as bullying’.’

‘The advertisements correspond very well with the government's overall intent and I can't see how it could be construed as misleading in any way.’

‘‘There is legislation which clearly makes it an offence to offer or expose for sale any item which can be construed as obscene,’ the police spokeswoman said.’



2 Analyse the syntax of (a text, sentence, or word)



Examples: 

‘both verbs can be construed with either infinitive’

‘Alternatively, the verb might be construed with the direct object ‘life’.’

‘And explaining how to construe a sentence spoils its effect, just as explaining the punch line of a joke does.’

‘All we need to do is to construe each action sentence as involving an implicit existential quantification, with the variable of quantification taking events as its possible values.’

‘Although it is open to a court in limited circumstances to conclude that the words or syntax used is wrong, the purpose remains to construe the words used.’

‘It is permissible, where the context so allows, to construe words used in the plural as including the singular.’



2.1 Translate (a passage or author) word for word, typically aloud.



Examples: 

‘she was construing straight-faced a suggestive passage of Ovid’



Related Forms: 

unconstrued, adjective
construer, noun
construable, adjective
construability, noun



French: 

  interpréter,   expliquer
  expliquer
  analyser,   décomposer



51. Ambient

1 Relating to the immediate surroundings of something.



Examples: 

‘the liquid is stored at below ambient temperature’

‘Will operation in environments with significantly higher ambient temperatures cause a pump malfunction?’

‘One of the primary differences in these two environments is the average ambient temperature, both in the day and night.’

‘The hatchlings normally emerge after a period of about 45-55 days depending upon the ambient sand temperature and climatic conditions.’

‘At the end of incubation, samples were allowed to cool down to room temperature under ambient conditions and always maintained in an aqueous environment.’

‘Limited rainfall, high ambient temperatures, and a highly variable physical environment characterize Turkana district.’

‘Due to the sharp difference between cooled and ambient air temperatures, people who move between them risk colds and heat stroke.’

‘These should reduce your CPU temperature by at least 5 degrees centigrade in a 20 degrees centigrade ambient environment.’

‘If you have underfloor heating throughout, you will enjoy a better all-round ambient temperature in every room, not just on the ground floor.’

‘You haven't even been in the train long enough to feel the ambient temperature.’

‘All tests were run with an ambient temperature of 20 degrees Celsius.’

‘The 24 seedlings of each treatment were placed in one of two custom-designed root boxes capable of controlling root temperatures, while the shoots were exposed to the ambient greenhouse environment.’

‘Depending on soil type, questions of water usage and ambient temperature times determine the longevity and performance of soil/water combinations.’

‘Working in his back yard, aided by a schoolboy neighbor, he timed flashes and measured temperature and ambient light with equipment from the departmental storeroom.’

‘They read infrared radiation and are not affected by ambient light.’

‘All of these headphones use tiny microphones mounted on or inside the headset to pick up the ambient noise just before you hear it.’

‘Wide metal door sills and soft-blue ambient lighting welcome you into the car.’

‘The problem that Nasa has is that the electrical charging and heating effects caused by ambient particle radiation can disturb the delicate measurements needed to detect these effects.’

‘Current LCD displays on a wide range of applications can be difficult to read if the ambient light is too strong or the reader is not positioned in front of the screen.’

‘Seasonal variation in the moon's path through the night sky changes the variance in ambient moonlight between proximate new moons and full moons.’

‘On balance, having regard to the ambient background noise, I consider that the additional vehicle movements would not generate such noise and disturbance as to unacceptably harm residents' amenities.’



1.1 Relating to ambient music.



Examples: 

‘Forsaking the oeuvres of boy bands, their coverage has so far been saturated with unobtrusively tuneful ambient dance music.’

‘Harp arpeggios, ambient sounds, a typewriter and speech establish the mood.’

‘For those who aren't familiar with these projects, this collaborative release serves as an excellent introduction to a Danish collective that are doing some really impressive things with ambient guitar work at the moment.’

‘To my ear, the remixes are fine examples of ambient dub.’



2 Relating to or denoting advertising that makes use of sites or objects other than the established media (e.g. by placing slogans on the back of bus tickets).



Examples: 

‘Print ads complementing the TV and radio ads will run in national media, with ambient advertising at stations and on buses.’

‘Point-of-sale advertisements accounted for a quarter of the total ambient media spend.’

‘The campaign covers TV, radio, print and ambient media, with the message that the newspaper is worth re-appraising.’

‘The launch will be backed by a cinema, radio, outdoor and ambient advertising campaign.’

‘The campaign appeared on BBC television, radio and online as well as supported by ambient media.’



Related Forms: 

unambient, adjective
unambiently, adverb



French: 

 ambiant



52. Pane

1 A single sheet of glass in a window or door.



Examples: 

‘Doors with glass panes require a double-cylinder deadbolt to prevent someone from breaking the glass, reaching in and unlocking the door.’

‘A MAN who pleaded to causing damage to a door and breaking two panes of glass at a house was ordered to compensate the owner, at the November 22 sitting of Carlow District Court.’

‘In the central image, the girl sits on the top steps, the glass panes in the front door visible behind her.’

‘Mrs Platt said glass panes in the door of another Church Street shop had also been damaged in the same way.’

‘Roberts then appeared in the kitchen having smashed the glass pane in her door and removed the security chain.’

‘They had a row and he left and at Brown Street kicked a door and broke a pane of glass.’

‘There are two long, narrow windows and a walkout door with glass panes to a deck in the bedroom’

‘The glass pane on the door and every window were reduced to tiny fragments.’

‘Earlier in the day, my oldest brother had accidentally broken one of the glass panes in our kitchen door, which my mother had temporarily patched with a flap from a cardboard box.’

‘It could have been easily mistaken for a mall, with its multi-story commercial looking structure and the massive glass panes and doors.’

‘If your door has glass panes, are they properly glazed?’

‘Glass panes in select cabinet doors show vintage dishware; others bear fabric and chicken-wire inserts.’

‘When they entered the wooden doors with glass panes, a young teenage man with spiky blond hair and a cute grin greeted them.’

‘When single panes of toughened glass are used overhead such failure can have dangerous consequences.’

‘Doors are now large panes of glass with unobstructed views of the beach.’

‘When I saw the painting, strangely executed on the upper glass panes of a door, I was spellbound.’

‘Rather than foregrounding a central object when I gaze into a store window, I become interested instead in all that a single pane of glass can contain.’

‘It is still out of bounds, its ghostly emptiness - whole streets without a single pane of glass intact - telling its own poignant story.’

‘And better yet, the top half of the door was a large pane of glass that gave him a great view of the kitchen.’

‘The entire outside wall was a single pane of glass, covered only by a lacy curtain.’



1.1 A separate defined area within a window for the display of, or interaction with, a specified part of that window's application or output.



Examples: 

‘You should now see the audio tracks displayed on the right pane of the software window.’

‘It has some great features, including tabbed documents and a multi-pane screen with the ability to keep notes in a separate pane.’

‘As an example, here are images of the panes of a computer using a standard USB keyboard and mouse, and one using a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse connection.’

‘You are given a molecule, displayed in the right-hand pane, with its component atoms scattered in a maze of sorts.’

‘Click on a file in any of 220 formats and it will be displayed in the viewer pane.’

‘The View tab under the Settings menu allows you to add or remove items displayed on the Task pane.’

‘The browser has unique features, including the ability to split the window into panes, with each pane displaying different web sites or even a web site and the contents of a local directory.’

‘By dividing your main window with a set of vertical panes, you can resize this window, if you like.’

‘Once you have added all the keywords in the right pane which are applicable for your site, click on the next keyword in the left pane which is applicable for your site.’

‘Your search and results panes can be resized and customized to whatever layout you find appropriate.’



2 A sheet or page of stamps.



Examples: 

‘In 1958, the Post Office ceased the practice as collectors were purchasing only the plate blocks, leaving broken panes of stamps in post offices.’

‘The pane of 24 stamps also contained 24 connecting tabs in 12 designs.’

‘This cover bears a pane of nine stamps from the Wedgwood £3 book of stamps and is unaddressed.’

‘Each booklet contained a pane of 10 37c stamps from the current definitive range.’



Related Forms: 

paneless, adjective



French: 

 vitre , carreau  m
 un carreau
enêtre   panoramique



53. Extensive

1 Covering or affecting a large area.



Examples: 

‘an extensive garden’

‘This extensive over-development would affect the lives of everyone living in Fulford.’

‘Today it belongs to the Rockefeller Foundation, but the extensive gardens are open to small guided tours.’

‘The garden, quite extensive at that, had sported an abandoned look for a long time.’

‘The house and its gardens are set in extensive park land and a first impression is that of a comfortable stately home.’

‘After a walk round the extensive gardens and lake, the group adjourned to Lullingstone for lunch.’

‘All this plus extensive hilltop gardens with cross-London views, and it's all free.’

‘It is located within a cluster of houses and has a side entrance and an extensive rear garden.’

‘Now visitors can wander through the house and the extensive gardens landscaped by the poet.’

‘We wandered the extensive gardens of the home together and came to a steep grassy bank.’

‘Up at the top, the path widens out to reveal a large country house set in extensive gardens.’

‘Outside, the delightful wooded gardens have extensive river frontage and a sunny aspect.’

‘This is a fantastic walk on a broad ridge giving extensive views of the surrounding area and all above 2,000 feet.’

‘This, coupled with its extensive gardens, should be of interest to growing families.’

‘Outside, the extensive landscaped gardens are a defining feature of the property.’

‘The second bedroom features a door to the garden and extensive built-in wardrobes.’

‘Similarly, local hopes voiced in the consultation for extensive green areas are set to be disappointed.’

‘They carried out an extensive search of the area but nothing was found.’

‘This can hardly be called extensive given the area that New Malden covers.’

‘The phone was not recovered despite extensive searches of the area by teams of officers over the weekend.’

‘Our officers carried out an extensive search of the area this morning but he has not been seen again.’



1.1 Large in amount or scale.



Examples: 

‘an extensive collection of silver’

‘I have a fairly extensive amount of work done on the subject, and a number of links that are worth following.’

‘Your Honour will realise there is an extensive amount of material on there.’

‘There's nowhere else in the world you could see such an extensive and amazing collection of modern art.’

‘With such extensive legal power already in the hands of the government, why do we need to make things worse?’

‘The Ombudsman can look into all aspects of administration, and has extensive powers in law.’

‘Barker and Adair are thrilled by her snappish, difficult behaviour and her extensive shoe collection.’

‘Such an extensive collection surely implies an element of forethought.’

‘After a look at his extensive collection of trophies, it is easier to understand the decision.’

‘He became President under a revised Constitution which gave him extensive powers.’

‘Kumaratunga is increasingly relying on her extensive executive powers as president.’

‘Homes which will be affected by the extensive work will be contacted directly by Yorkshire Water.’

‘McClements also boasts an extensive wine list to complement the imaginative menus.’

‘The public toilets will also be given an extensive facelift and the whole site resurfaced with bay markings.’

‘The Action Group then undertook an extensive survey which was completed in five days.’

‘If at first you don't succeed then institute an extensive and wideranging review of your systems and processes.’

‘Rosie has also had extensive involvement with the Catholic Church and school activities.’

‘The Marine Institute has just completed an extensive refurbishment at its facilities.’

‘After many years of extensive research into this area I have also reached the same conclusion.’

‘Windy Hill Park on the estate is also set to be revamped with a new play area and extensive tidying in the coming months.’

‘The Barron Hall, a listed building is an asset to the area which needs extensive repairs.’



2 (of agriculture) obtaining a relatively small crop from a large area with a minimum of capital and labour.



Examples: 

‘extensive farming techniques’

‘Secondly, at the time of the Mayans there was no extensive agriculture in Venezuela.’

‘Viticulture is most extensive in the Rhine and Mosel valleys in west Germany and is an important export industry.’

‘The REPS scheme should be ideally suited to the more extensive type of farming in island areas.’

‘Will the drive for more extensive systems in farming lead to greater problems?’

‘One of the strengths of our agriculture is that we're extensive.’



Related Forms: 

nonextensiveness, noun
nonextensive, adjective
preextensively, adverb
extensiveness, noun
nonextensively, adverb
preextensive, adjective
extensively, adverb
extensiveness, extensivity  [ek-sten-siv-i-tee, ik-] /ˌɛk stɛnˈsɪv ɪ ti, ɪk-/, noun



French: 

 étendu
 important, considérable
 approfondi
 extensif
 ce problème a été largement traité dans les médias
 beaucoup utiliser quelque chose,aire un usage considérable de quelque chose



54. Reclusive

 Avoiding the company of other people; solitary.



Examples: 

‘he led a reclusive life’

‘He now lives a quiet, reclusive life in rural Cheshire, with wife Christine, shunning the media spotlight.’

‘If that is the case, it will thrust the reclusive billionaires into a limelight they have spent years avoiding.’

‘The reclusive Quaker became one of the most celebrated figures in chemistry when he presented his atomic theory in 1803.’

‘She gave interviews with her husband then, but in later years is only referred to as a reclusive television addict who refuses to go out or meet people.’

‘The normally reclusive Bob Dylan has revealed his hatred of most modern music in a rash of interviews to promote his 43rd album.’

‘Still, why would the normally reclusive local musical maverick suddenly seek mass approval?’

‘He is also famously reclusive and chary of talking about his craft.’

‘Relatively reclusive writers and artists consent to documentaries because exposure will help them commercially.’

‘He received criticism for his eccentric and reclusive lifestyle and for his attempts to use cosmetic surgery to change his skin colour.’

‘The film will feature Sarah Polley, a Canadian actress, as a reclusive nurse who abandons her first holiday in many years to work on a rig.’

‘In the years that followed, he became more violent and reclusive.’

‘She had been in ill-health and led a reclusive lifestyle, so news of her death did not gain the headlines it might have.’

‘Paul Summerston, the Old Bailey heard, led a reclusive lifestyle, rarely socialising and had only a few close friends.’

‘So, having finally learnt that you can trust no-one, I guess I became reclusive.’

‘Anonymity is not an option when you're a dwarf, even a reclusive one.’

‘And what about the rumours that Kubrick was reclusive, obsessive and difficult to work with?’

‘He appears to be somewhat inadequate and has lived a sheltered, reclusive life.’

‘October sees the 100th anniversary of the death of the reclusive French artist.’

‘Because he is reclusive and rarely gives interviews, his relationship with the club is intriguing.’

‘The inquest heard that the brothers were shy, reclusive men, who repeatedly ignored doctors.’



Related Forms: 

nonreclusive, adjective
reclusive, adjective
unrecluse, adjective
unreclusive, adjective
reclusion (rɪˈkluːʒən), noun



French: 

NULL



55. Transduce

 Convert variations in (a physical quantity) into an electrical signal, or vice versa.



Examples: 

‘a protein involved in transducing mechanical stimuli’



Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



56. Convolution

1 A thing that is complex and difficult to follow.



Examples: 

‘the convolutions of farm policy’

‘More important, I still find it hard to follow the convolutions of the plot.’

‘Carey satirizes literary culture, plays with archetypes, exoticism, and the convolutions of travel yarns, and evokes Malaysia and Indonesia with aplomb.’

‘Surely we reasonable creatures could dispense with these convolutions?’

‘It's an interesting parallel, because jazz came in at the same time as the Modern style in architecture, and both have continued, but with convolutions and changes of style, up to the present time.’

‘Yes, laughter too; for in the self-contradictory convolutions of human thought and action, the funny can, innocently or not, coexist with the most tragic.’

‘The convolutions eventually snare the corrupt powerbrokers in their own deceptive political machinations.’

‘The dialogue will be mostly in English, a bonus when trying to weave one's way through the inevitable romantic convolutions of the operetta genre.’

‘They were handsomely backed in the convolutions of the plot by the rest of the cast, all of whom escaped the guillotine which loomed behind.’

‘Unfortunately, all of the melodrama and intentional plot convolutions don't add up to much.’

‘But what stopped me from really, really liking it was the utter convolution of the plot.’

‘The story seems to be supplemented every time the film-makers realise they're no closer to the target run-time they've been set by the studio and then just dissolves into its own convolution.’

‘I swear I'm trying to keep convolution to a minimum here, but this is no game of fishing in the carnival ducky pond, no siree.’

‘The bad news is that there's a great deal of convolution: events and emotions are very confused, the threads are tangled.’

‘For such are the convolutions of City's current cash crisis that should a buyer not be found by Saturday's deadline, the club will physically not close there and then.’

‘But given the convolutions of the US electoral system I willing to admit I could be wrong.’

‘I urge the apologists for the Prime Minister to stop their convolutions and twisting of the truth.’

‘The convolutions in the plotlines veer back and forth between intriguing and confusing.’

‘The convolutions of dress are of course largely to act as trip wires for the unwary.’

‘Although the plot convolutions probably employ too many convenient coincidences, suspension of disbelief happens effortlessly thanks to superb acting and directing throughout.’

‘I trust him and he knows the water and heating convolutions of the house inside out.’



2 A coil or twist.



Examples: 

‘crosses adorned with elaborate convolutions’

‘Their origin is not yet completely understood, although they are certainly related to convolutions of the intense solar magnetic field.’

‘Phosphor is clearly named for the pale, luminous green that animates a thick, pythonlike convolution which winds up from the bottom of the horizontal canvas and takes several loops around itself before exiting at the top.’

‘In this convolution, the edges of the blades in teeth 21-27 are serrated and show 15 denticles on each one.’

‘I go under the table to run my fingertip over their convolutions.’

‘Greatly enlarged, the convolutions of white seemed to waft up and westward toward the clouds of a buttermilk sky.’

‘If your horse isn't getting enough you'll see dramatic rings and convolutions in the hoof wall.’

‘Above, the ceiling was hidden behind convolutions and clusters of tubes and beams and stranger things.’

‘A disadvantage of the use of spacers is that the dynamic reach of the spacer causes a convolution in the adhesion image.’

‘These logic gates are easy to link together because they are just extra convolutions in the tracks.’

‘It stared at them with eyes they could not find in the convolutions of its grotesque skin.’

‘The line ran about eight hundred yards north to south, but in its convolutions stretched in overall length for more than two miles.’



2.1 The state of being or process of becoming coiled or twisted.



Examples: 

‘the flexibility of the polymer chain allows extensive convolution’

‘These fungiform structures are formed from a convolution of exocuticle.’

‘Thus, the force required to extend and compress their convolutions is very low and stays consistent from part to part and over a wide range of motion.’



3 A sinuous fold in the surface of the brain.



Examples: 

‘In people, nonhuman primates, and other mammals with relatively large brains, the cerebral cortex's convolutions permit its large surface area to cram inside the skull.’

‘Called an endocast, the model shows a variety of features, including the brain's size, shape, vessels, and convolutions.’

‘In addition, cholesterol depletion caused the convolutions of the basal membrane and the structure of the lateral membrane to be less complex and the membranes to be smoother in the DIC images.’

‘They say one particular convolution in the right part of the brain is responsible for this sensation, that it collects information from different parts of the brain to form an idea of where the human body is at any particular moment.’



4 A function derived from two given functions by integration which expresses how the shape of one is modified by the other.



Examples: 

‘The disorientation of the filaments around fiber axes is also treated as a convolution with a Gaussian function.’

‘This operation is accomplished in the frequency domain by making use of the fundamental mathematical relationship that multiplication in the frequency domain is equivalent to convolution in the time domain.’

‘We accomplish this shift by performing a 2 - D convolution of the image with a 7 x 7 low-pass filter mask.’

‘The width of the sine period that was used for convolution was taken equal to 13 pixels as this yielded the smoothest traces.’

‘In this way, a large number of very thin slabs would lead to a large number of parameters needing simultaneous refinement; moreover if the slabs were very thin they would be entirely smeared out after convolution with the Gaussian.’



4.1 A method of determination of the sum of two random variables by integration or summation.



Examples: 

‘The convolution method does not generate any new insight into what determines the value of [left angle bracket] Î ½ [right angle bracket], but it serves as a useful test case.’

‘Data analysis was carried out using a nonlinear, least-squares iterative convolution method based on the Marquardt algorithm.’

‘The convolution method increases the precision, relative to estimation of the individual linewidths by simulation.’

‘The convolution method was used to distinguish a cell from the background.’

‘The fitting of a sum of exponentials convoluted to an instrument response to experimental data is traditionally done by iterative convolution.’



Related Forms: 

convolutional, convolutionary  [kon-vuh-loo-shuh-ner-ee] /ˌkɒn vəˈlu ʃəˌnɛr i/, adjective
convolutional or convolutionary, adjective



French: 

NULL



57. Dysentery

 Infection of the intestines resulting in severe diarrhoea with the presence of blood and mucus in the faeces.



Examples: 

‘There are no pus cells in the stool, thereby ruling out a bacterial diarrhea like shigella dysentery.’

‘Doctors there were seeing many cases of diarrhoeal disease and feared epidemics of dysentery and cholera.’

‘Cholera, typhoid, dysentery, and other illnesses can be contracted from untreated bathing and drinking water.’

‘While the tidal waves wreaked havoc, the death toll from epidemics caused by diseases such as dysentery, cholera and typhoid could be far higher.’

‘Sewage can carry cholera, typhoid, hepatitis and dysentery, all of which start with acute diarrhoea.’

‘A recent study found that some urban rats were infected with organisms that could cause diseases including diarrhoea and dysentery.’

‘Cholera, dysentery, tuberculosis, and other new diseases took my mother and my friends in a matter of months.’

‘As the tankers dug in, dengue fever, malaria, diarrhea, and dysentery afflicted many of the soldiers.’

‘You do hear about outbreaks of things like cholera and dysentery as well as malaria.’

‘The reductions in duration of both non-dysenteric diarrhoea and dysentery were significant.’

‘Within weeks of the arrival of the new inmates, epidemics of typhus, dysentery, and tuberculosis were raging out of control.’

‘In numerous cases, men first diagnosed with malaria or typhoid were later classified with diarrhea or dysentery.’

‘One is able to regard the country as very healthy, despite the regrettable maladies that frequently afflict it in the form of plague, dysentery and small pox.’

‘Amebic dysentery is a severe form of amoebiasis.’

‘S. flexneri and S. dysenteriae type 1 typically produce severe dysentery, particularly the latter.’

‘Mortality during famines was rarely caused solely by starvation but from related diseases like dysentery, typhoid, and typhus.’

‘By August eighty-nine men were recorded in the hospital registers with having diarrhea or dysentery.’

‘We have lots of patients suffering from dysentery and diarrhea.’

‘Although blood in the stool suggests invasive disease, fever is not a sensitive indicator of dysentery.’

‘The pulp of Baobab fruits has a taste like the cream of tartar and is used to treat fever, dysentery and stomach ailments in some parts of Asia.’



Related Forms: 

dysenteric, adjective
postdysenteric, adjective
dysenteric (ˌdɪsənˈtɛrɪk), adjective



French: 

 dysenterie 



58. Impinge

1 Have an effect, especially a negative one.



Examples: 

‘several factors impinge on market efficiency’

‘More than 1800 people - a pretty large focus group - were asked about the environmental factors that impinge most negatively upon their daily lives.’

‘One of the sacred precepts of modern educational theory is that you must never impinge negatively on the pupil's self-esteem.’

‘Those who oppose these laws argue that the legislation impinges far too much on civil liberties and strikes at the heart of some of the basic tenants of our democracy and judicial system.’

‘I can't speak for other Londoners, but May Day Riots are rapidly joining the London Marathon as events that I never witness as such, yet whose aftermath always somehow impinges, usually when I'm off in search of debauch.’

‘Reading and sifting allows me to see myself as an agent in the literary culture - which I have to believe impinges at least somewhat on our common lives.’

‘The oozy goo of reproduction and decay impinges darkly on the tidy geometrical regularity of a bogus suburban milieu.’

‘But the principal cost of their success impinges directly on the players.’

‘How much more time will be wasted and how much more blood will flow before this reality impinges?’

‘But in all cases they refer to behaviour that has impinged adversely on others, usually those closest to me.’

‘She is enjoying the fame, and the increase in attention hasn't impinged too badly on her time.’

‘Those sorts of imponderables do occasionally impinge, but not often.’

‘I found a place where politics still ranks low in the order of things, where life has more immediate things to concern it, and where the affairs of the far-off capital seem scarcely to impinge.’

‘Suddenly the reality of war started to impinge.’

‘Over time, we will better incorporate the new economic-theory developments as the practices they describe impinge.’

‘The President has Constitutional powers upon which Congress cannot impinge.’

‘It was at about this time that the name of Stephen Hawking first impinged on popular awareness.’

‘So quantum physics actually does impinge on our everyday lives, even if we do not need to be a quantum mechanic to make a TV set or a hi-fi system work.’

‘Lindsay, it's an interesting question and one that impinged on my senior year project as a matter of fact.’

‘The new problem, the verroa mite, has not yet impinged in this area and we are all apprehensive as to what the effect will be.’

‘He decided to pair his traps with his triceps training, as the latter would not infringe upon, or impinge, his sensitive neck.’



1.1 Advance over an area belonging to someone or something else; encroach.



Examples: 

‘the proposed fencing would impinge on a public bridleway’

‘He wrote: ‘Whilst it does not appear to impinge too much on the Micklegate area, we do have an abundance of clubs and pubs in the area, which sometimes does have a detrimental effect on Micklegate.’’



1.2 Strike.



Examples: 

‘the gases impinge on the surface of the liquid’

‘When using the laser beam for welding the electromagnetic radiation impinges on the surface of the base metal with such a concentration of energy that the temperature of the surface is melted and volatilized.’

‘Waves of any sort set up sympathetic vibrations in the materials they impinge upon, which is the principle behind many many things, including telephones and radar.’

‘Electrons from the source impinge upon an x-ray anode, causing the emission of x-ray radiation toward the window.’

‘Although the Sun's rays that reach the Earth are essentially parallel, the light impinges on a spherical droplet at a wide range of angles to the surface, where it undergoes refraction.’

‘In Manchester in 1911, Ernest Rutherford and some younger co-workers began to study how some small, positively charged projectiles called particles behaved when they impinged on a thin gold film.’



Related Forms: 

impinger, noun
impingent, adjective
impingement, noun
unimpinging, adjective



French: 

 affecter
 empiéter sur



59. Dither

1 Be indecisive.



Examples: 

‘I can't bear people who dither’

‘he was dithering about the election date’

‘While other sporting associations and organisations vacillated and dithered and dallied, the GAA got on with it.’

‘It's a very small-scale event, so please don't dither, dally or delay.’

‘Because hanging around while someone dithers over their order was getting between him and his carefully crafted lifestyle.’

‘There must be no more discussion, delay or dithering on building this interceptor tunnel.’

‘The government has been warned to stop dithering and delaying over its Crossrail plans for Kingston.’

‘Dibden Bay and Southampton have been delayed and they are dithering about Bathside.’

‘They dithered and faltered and could not get the roll-out of the leadership coup over to the public or even amongst themselves.’

‘Time and again he dithered and dallied on the baseline.’

‘While the Government dithers, the project continues to suffer mind-boggling cost escalation at the rate of Rs. 55 lakh a day.’

‘As the Government dithers on the matter, he said, cancer sufferers in Waterford, Kilkenny, Wexford and Carlow are dying.’

‘While the FDA dithers, the case against selling EC over the counter weakens by the day.’

‘Meanwhile, as she dithers, I put more and more things into boxes.’

‘In the face of this, official Ottawa dithers and slithers, hoping questions about Arar will go away.’

‘We're still dithering over the Future Fund and talking of parking spare shares there.’

‘Yet the CEOs and the Boards of Directors still dithered and their share prices were unshaken.’

‘While the government dithers, the awful record of deaths at work gets worse.’

‘The limited access to anti-retrovirals and national government's dithering further dims their future.’

‘The longer that the government dithers, the deeper we get into debt.’

‘Still, we dithered around with first one idea and then another.’

‘And so Danny just stood in the background whilst the soldiers dithered around trying to make things safe.’



2 Add white noise to (a digital recording) to reduce distortion of low-amplitude signals.



Examples: 

‘In fact what I had done was to put the AIFF file in Wavelab, used the change gain function and re-dithered the song.’

‘In order to test the actuation bandwidth, the reference signal was dithered with a signal of constant amplitude, swept in frequency.’



2.1 Display or print (a colour image) in such a way that it appears to contain more colours than are really available.



Examples: 

‘the easiest way to remove hot pixels is to dither the images’

‘Photoshop / ImageReady accomplishes this through dithering the image in one of three methods, selectable by the user: diffusion, pattern and noise.’

‘GIF may win out with the non-dithering, fewer color images while JPEG is excellent for dithered continuous tone images.’

‘‘The messy dithering of colours that occurs with JPEG compression is bad feng shui.’’

‘The three images are supposed to show the effects of quantization and dithering, but that's nearly impossible to see in this black-and-white image.’

‘However, the dithering on the 24-bit photos we beamed over was very apparent thanks to the screen's low dot pitch.’



1 Indecisive behaviour.



Examples: 

‘after months of dither ministers had still not agreed’

‘After what seemed like an eternity of debate and dither, Winters finally smashed his kick high and to the left of Gallacher.’

‘The fresh wave of rhapsodic dither on the director's sociopolitical acuity was inevitable.’

‘Why all this dither about what's modern and what's not?’

‘His moment of authority coming as it does after an evening of dither and doubt is a well thought out and crafted piece of acting.’

‘It was entertaining to see them caught in a dither of priorities.’

‘Veterans are disappointed if not a little angered by the dither and delay which means the collection is now going 100 miles away.’

‘‘It is time the Government ended the dither and delay,’ Mr Burstow said.’

‘Intel's obviously in a bit of a dither about this.’



2 A state of agitation.



Examples: 

‘all of a dither, he prophesied instant chaos’

‘It's the day of the murder-mystery fundraising event and Colleen's all in a dither.’

‘After Clark and I returned home from our oceanic bonding session, we walked in the door to find the whole house in a dither.’

‘With Hong Kong in a dither, Shanghai is quickly gaining prominence as the gateway to China.’

‘But still, the whole experience can send me into a tissy and a dither and you don't want Halley in either of those places.’

‘Mary charged out of the room in an obvious dither.’

‘In DXD mode, dither is selectable for stereo and surround monitors, but you must not use it.’

‘Image processor using both dither and error diffusion to produce halftone images with less flicker and patterns’

‘Instead, the government opted for dither and funk.’

‘The Empress is in a dither about the sprinklers again.’



Related Forms: 

ditherer, noun
dithery, adjective



French: 

  hésiter,   se tâter
 décide-toi
 arrête de tourner en rond
 hésiter,  se tâter
 il était dans tous ses états à cause de ses examens



60. Scrutiny

 Critical observation or examination.



Examples: 

‘every aspect of local government was placed under scrutiny’

‘In response to all the above-mentioned cases, I published critical scrutinies of Korpi's assertions.’

‘He might read Michael Buckley's magisterial study of scientific scrutinies of religion ever since the Enlightenment.’

‘The Hutton and Butler scrutinies called into question whether the obligation was being fully secured.’

‘The small percipient eyes are screwed up, and wrinkled from his repeated minute scrutinies.’

‘She then preceded him from the sitting room, allowing nothing to show on her expression save calm due to his continued sidelong scrutinies.’

‘The group entered the store, Vicki only vaguely aware of Cora and Andy's chatter and Wil's long, sidelong scrutinies.’

‘This might have been because there was nothing on the end of the line except a lead sinker, but that interesting anomaly wasn't visible to the observers, even with the keenest of scrutinies, so they were left unknowing.’



Related Forms: 

nonscrutiny, noun, plural nonscrutinies.
self-scrutiny, noun
rescrutiny, noun, plural rescrutinies.



French: 

 examen  m  approfondi
 surveillance 
 regard  m  insistant
 être sous surveillance
aire l'objet d'un contrôle
 être contrôlé
 tous nos actes sont surveillés de près
 son travail ne résiste pas à un examen minutieux
 deuxième pointage  m  (des suffrages)



61. Retrodict

 State a fact about the past based on inference or deduction, rather than evidence.



Examples: 

‘On the other hand, the ‘theory of moves,’ which is founded on game theory but radically changes its standard rules of play, does retrodict, or make past predictions of, the leaders' choices.’

‘The only measure of success here is how well the models retrodict climate.’

‘The observation fitted a prediction of the theory, rather than the theory retrodicting an already observed phenomena.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



62. Abhorrent

 Inspiring disgust and loathing; repugnant.



Examples: 

‘racism was abhorrent to us all’

‘It's as abhorrent and repellent and disgusting to me as it ever was.’

‘The combination of horrific makeup, abhorrent timing, and trite jokes has literally become painful.’

‘The idea that covenant marriage ought to be sanctioned by the state is illiberal, reprehensible and abhorrent.’

‘It has a powerful way of making acceptable what was once abhorrent or repulsive.’

‘When are we going to understand that debt slavery is an abomination, is abhorrent to God?’

‘At the same time, if moral guidance is itself morally repugnant, then self-contempt is equally as abhorrent.’

‘Begging is a horrible word and yet it is not as abhorrent as stealing.’

‘The most abhorrent smells come from that place - cabbage-pork-shellfish smells.’

‘Their manifesto is totally racist and abhorrent to anybody with a basic understanding of genetics, yet they are gaining strength.’

‘Whatever the cause, I discovered that I was terrorised and was behaving in ways that were both irrational and abhorrent.’

‘And he felt it was up to politicians to outlaw abhorrent practice.’

‘They've manipulated it into existence and I find that abhorrent.’

‘But sensible people surely find this not only abhorrent, but alarming.’

‘Such a scenario appears incongruous, if not abhorrent, to many.’

‘Let me state now that I do find prostitution to be abhorrent.’

‘Yes, the animals themselves are raised and slaughtered in abhorrent conditions, and stuffed with antibiotics.’

‘I find it abhorrent that some groups of Bolton's community, such as pensioners, will struggle to meet the increase.’

‘Abusive child labor is abhorrent and should be banned and eradicated.’

‘The notion that beggars might be more vigorously pursued is abhorrent.’

‘They must reject the abhorrent demands of hostage takers and bandits and, if necessary, commit more funds and more troops.’



Related Forms: 

abhorrently, adverb
unabhorrently, adverb



French: 

 odieux
 je trouve leur attitude détestable
 contraire
 incompatible
 des considérations économiques de ce genre sont contraires au or incompatibles avec le socialisme



63. Quell

1 Put an end to (a rebellion or other disorder), typically by the use of force.



Examples: 

‘extra police were called to quell the disturbance’

‘The key early win was getting an interim city council elected on May 5, only two weeks after forces arrived to begin quelling widespread disorder.’

‘Existing ‘loyalist’ forces were unable to quell the rebellion and reinforcements had to be called from China.’

‘Members of the 800th Military Police Brigade had to use lethal force several times to quell prisoner uprisings, the report says.’

‘The military government pledged to quell rebellion and unify the country by force.’

‘He conquered the Sudan and quelled a rebellion in Greece.’

‘Initially as surprised as everyone else, the Mexican army soon recovered and violently quelled the rebellion.’

‘The incident, in which a chalet-style caravan was attacked at Rectory Lane last Tuesday night, has led senior officers to reassure residents they have been working to quell the disorder.’

‘Military experts said last night that regular soldiers - let alone elite assault troops - had never before been used to quell disorder in the United States.’

‘But, just as Edward Longshanks failed to quell the rebellion that led to Scottish independence, William Wallace's legacy lives on.’

‘To unite the country and strengthen the stability of the border, Emperor Qian Long assembled large numbers of troops in Danba to quell the rebellion.’

‘These are all places where Western armies had to quell disorder.’

‘In his place they sent Colonel Lachlan Macquarie who arrived in 1810 with a regiment to quell the rebellion.’

‘He spent five years quelling rebellions and establishing Norman authority, building many castles and stocking them with men brought from Normandy.’

‘He disposed of his rival claimants, and quelled various rebellions that the succession crisis had spawned.’

‘The new party general secretary will no doubt be expected to play a role in quelling the ongoing unrest among hill tribes.’

‘Police and soldiers were sent to Yelwa to quell the violence and the town has been reported calm since Friday.’

‘Conductors were popular, and deservedly so, because they assisted elderly people, sorted out fares and quelled bad behaviour.’

‘The idea of quelling the legitimate resistance of an occupied people by the application of massive, gratuitous violence and murder, is not peculiar to Japan.’

‘His murder is the latest in a series of high-profile killings of left activists which human rights advocates say is part of a military-backed campaign aimed at silencing government critics and quelling dissent.’

‘Policemen and commandos are deployed to quell riots and to maintain law and order.’



1.1 Subdue or silence (someone)



Examples: 

‘Connor quelled him with a look’

‘After quelling the crowd somewhat, he and Mr. Timberlake gave each other a high-five.’

‘He quelled James McFadden with his hardy yet wholesome intercessions.’

‘Those in yellow and white candy-stripes threatened to be sweet meat for the Leith club as they found themselves being dragged every which way as they sought to quell opponents brimming with attacking invention.’

‘Police forced people on the 500 block to the sidewalks several times in attempt to shrink and quell the crowd.’

‘He said his office would continue in its efforts to save the peace pact, despite the looming operation to quell the rebels.’

‘So the wait prolongs before Harry Potter and his friends at Hogwarts School of Magic finally quell Lord Voldemort, the evil and powerful Wizard.’

‘Beatrice places a hand on his chest, and it instantly and completely quells him.’

‘The ambitious German, then 25, went on to finish as world champion that year; then again the next season, as inadequate opponents were quelled ruthlessly, one after the other.’

‘Whenever you beheld me, your eyes imprinted all their graces there, mastered and quelled me; and my eyes earned their share: to worship all in you that sight laid bare.’

‘Verbena quelled him in mid-grumble with a patient, long-suffering gaze, like a mother enduring a weary child's temper tantrum.’

‘He quelled her with a stern glance before turning back to the judges.’

‘Two of the top generals commanding the operation were replaced, although Moscow insisted they had been elevated to other duties and not punished for failing to quell the rebels.’

‘In 1 Henry IV he is commended by Prince Harry after Shrewsbury, and sent with Westmorland to quell the northern rebels.’

‘Before the match there was trouble in a little square outside the ground as riot police with batons waded in to quell troublemakers attached to both clubs.’

‘We must remember that the prime motive for Housmann's boulevards and circuses was to ensure that a strategically placed cannon could fire down many streets, quelling the citizens who were periodically disposed to revolution.’

‘She would not be calmed, she would not be quelled, she would not be made to silence and rest.’

‘For a while it seemed that the government had quelled radical groups, but this has only lulled us into a sense of false security.’

‘That proved to be enough to quell the upstarts, and Teague appeared to be settling a personal score when he raced over three more times in the second half.’

‘Sources said police used hundreds of tear gas canisters, rubber bullets and opened fire to quell the strikers, leaving seven people dead.’



1.2 Suppress (a feeling)



Examples: 

‘she quelled an urge to race up the stairs’

‘Private security patrols could be deployed in the borough for the first time to quell fears of crime among residents near Wandsworth Common.’

‘You'll be amazed at how much difference sunlight makes to quelling those anxious feelings.’

‘I tried to stifle the thoughts, tried to quell the overwhelming feeling of being trapped in circumstances.’

‘An only child, with parents who wanted what was best for her, she couldn't quell the feeling she was different from her peers.’

‘Carrots clear out excess cholesterol from the system, while ginger is wonderful at calming the digestive tract, helping to quell the feelings of nausea that some people experience when detoxing.’

‘There are no words, no internal dialogue that can quell my feeling of betrayal.’

‘It tempers temper, quells hatred and dissolves fear, bringing a deeper sense of dominion and happiness to our lives.’

‘It's totally possible for you to hook up with someone who inspires no desire and no passion, but quells your fear of being alone.’

‘It produces a feeling of fullness and quells the desire to eat.’

‘Partly, it may be a desire to quell emotions in front of strangers.’

‘We use it to comfort ourselves, quell anxiety and fear, and numb those feelings of self-doubt.’

‘It seems that nothing in this world is able to quell David Hempleman-Adams' thirst for adventure and this year has been no exception.’

‘The cooler temperatures of the last week should have quelled the amorous residents' ardour and after their recent exertions they should have quite an appetite.’

‘Breathing in the uncomfortable silence I tried to quell the unease, without much success I might add.’

‘The more the sisters seem to confess to one another, the less they seem to say, and the way that so many of the longings in the film are quieted without being fully quelled is part of its haunting and unnerving beauty.’

‘Many householders fear their insurance premiums could rise but the Association of British Insurers is trying to quell homeowners' worries.’

‘I get the impression that some in the broadcast media are more interested in spreading gloom to garner ratings than quelling people's uneasiness, or giving solid facts.’

‘Donnan felt his anger rise and immediately quelled it.’

‘Though this combo is just as passionate as their fellow Sagittarians, the Virgo Moon affects the inner nature enough to quell some of the more rash aspects of the Sagittarius personality.’

‘Throughout the poem, the mother constantly attempts to quell and quiet Jim's desire, reading that desire as potentially self-destructive.’



Related Forms: 

unquellable, adjective
quellable, adjective
queller, noun
unquelled, adjective



French: 

  réprimer,   étouffer
  dompter,   maîtriser
  apaiser,   soulager
  dissiper



64. Usher

1 A person who shows people to their seats, especially in a cinema or theatre or at a wedding.



Examples: 

‘An usher at the cinema said the attendance had been better when the film was first released some weeks ago, but there were no sell-outs.’

‘As George, Gary, and I were going to be ushers at his wedding, we had to be at the wedding rehearsal the day before the wedding.’

‘Clearly an organized hostess, Lady Feina had hired ushers to seat each of her guests exactly where they were supposed to be seated.’

‘This gave us the special attention of the ushers and great seats in the front row.’

‘Veteran usher, Neil, has worked at the same theatre for seven years.’

‘I couldn't believe our luck when we went to get our seats and the usher pointed them out.’

‘Sarah and Paul have asked me to be one of the two ushers at their wedding.’

‘I've also been a wedding usher, which is a breeze by comparison.’

‘The usher at the cinema introduced the movie, and gave away the plot.’

‘Kay first met Susan Gargary eight years ago while working as a cinema usher.’

‘Looking at the throng of people waiting to enter the building, Gil was glad that Laurie had instructed him to go to the back door where an usher would escort them to their seats instead of their having to stand in the long line.’

‘We would like to extend our thanks to all our neighbours and friends, too numerous to mention, who attended the Mass, also a special thanks to the ushers, altar servers, and everyone who helped to make this a memorable occasion.’

‘Is it a disappointment to you that a lot of the people behind the scenes, like the ushers and usherettes and yourself, don't get the recognition they deserve?’

‘The casket, escorted by ushers in white formal attire, was borne on an open white hearse led by eight impressive horses.’

‘She steered her mother to the doors, and watched as one of the ushers showed her to her seat in the front pew on the right.’

‘Interaction with the performers began as soon as ushers had guided guests to their seats.’

‘A female usher was seen at the bottom of the theatre talking on a two-way radio.’

‘At the top of the climb an usher showed you where to park and pointed out seating in an area outlined by lanterns.’

‘He allows his ticket stub to be scanned by an usher, who bows as he re-enters the cinema.’

‘I entered the chapel late, I remember the kind usher who showed me discreetly to my seat.’



1.1 An official in a law court whose duties include swearing in jurors and witnesses and keeping order.



Examples: 

‘The juror then asked the usher to hand to prosecuting counsel a note.’

‘Before I could explain that it might not be a good idea, the juror had told an usher, the court official who looks after each jury.’

‘It took several minutes for the crowd to quiet down and ushers to restore order.’

‘The notice in the jury room does not prevent or discourage notes to the judge being submitted via the court usher.’

‘He appeared to claim that there had been proper evidence but it had been lost by the court, or handed out to the wrong party by the usher after an earlier hearing in the High Court.’

‘The passing of a message to the claimants' counsel by the Deputy Judge, or the court usher, or the Deputy Judge's clerk would not, in my view, be regarded by the observer as of any significance whatsoever.’

‘If anybody wants copies of the judgments in either case there are a few copies here which the usher will be able to distribute.’

‘If you intend to attend at the next hearing, please leave your name and address with the usher.’

‘At the lowest level were thousands of petty jurisdictions, many private, but all fully staffed by a complement of judges, clerks, procurators, ushers, and tipstaffs.’

‘The workers, including ushers, legal clerks and administration staff, are in dispute with their employers over pay.’

‘Staff including court ushers and clerks are involved in the stoppage in England and Wales.’

‘It is also the case that no security problem is perceived to exist there; people coming up the stairs will inevitably meet an usher before reaching those rooms.’

‘Two long-serving ushers at Kingston Magistrates' Court were compulsorily retired on Friday despite being eager to carry on working.’

‘The usher vanished under the courtroom table to check and when she re-emerged said: ‘That seems to have managed it’.’

‘Court ushers and clerks and immigration officers were joining the walkout as part of a campaign to tackle low pay.’

‘Presumably in order to bring the case to a close by the end of the working week, the court agreed that, with an usher acting as a third party and furnished with a list of questions, the statement could be obtained.’

‘When he heard the verdict, Judge Paul Hoffman said to a court usher: ‘Very well, you may take the jury out.’’

‘Volunteers explain court procedure to those giving evidence, take them to the courtroom before trials, and introduce them to the usher and clerk.’

‘The trial had started on the Monday and by this time there was a flurry of black-cloaked ushers briskly walking through the building, desperately looking for a policeman.’

‘The court employs a bailiff, an usher, Mrs Henley and four administrators.’



1.2 A person employed to walk before a person of high rank on special occasions.



Examples: 

2 An assistant teacher.



Examples: 

‘It was modest in size, with perhaps 40 pupils taught by one master, assisted by an usher, in the room above the guildhall, both of which survive and are still used by the school.’

‘A woman put her hand up and the teacher with an usher went over to her with a microphone.’



1 Show or guide (someone) somewhere.



Examples: 

‘a waiter ushered me to a table’

‘I barely notice the waiter as I am ushered to my seat and presented with a laminated menu.’

‘I catch a glimpse of the bald pilot before she ushers me into the main cabin, which consists of one large cushioned seat.’

‘Before I'm treated to a vocal warm-up, ‘Matron’ becomes available and his assistant ushers me in.’

‘His assistant ushers me and the photographer past the two staff doing laundry and into a private cinema.’

‘There were no people ushering you around.’

‘He broke off from his schedule, delaying the local media interviews and ushering people out of the room while he had a few words in private with Robinson.’

‘A witness working in a nearby shop said he first knew something was wrong when he saw police officers ushering people past his window.’

‘He let them in while his assistant ushered a frightened customer out of the shop.’

‘After ushering me to the terrace, she escorted me to one of several free tables.’

‘As Caspersen ushers the employee out the door, two of her coworkers circle a custom-made round table, sniffing, sipping, and spitting coffee from some two dozen samples.’

‘Arean stood at the entrance to the tunnel ushering his people inside.’

‘There were policemen ushering people away, and some were always going in and out of the bar, which seemed really easy, since the door wasn't there.’

‘It was dark outside, but Brae could make out more uniformed people, ushering students off of the plane.’

‘He had only gotten to bed four or five hours ago after spending two hours ushering people out of his house and cleaning a small bit.’

‘He also insisted on personally ushering me to my third period class too.’

‘The man was ushering each person in, and making sure that they were supposed to be there.’

‘Alex called to the fleeing girl and boy before ushering the remaining people in the living room out of the house.’

‘Guards swarmed all over the city ushering people and fighting dark clad figures.’

‘These events are tailor-made for sponsors, because they draw big crowds and plenty of regional coverage that can usher people into your place of business.’

‘It's like some ritual to usher people into the neighborhood.’



2 Cause or mark the start of something new.



Examples: 

‘the railways ushered in an era of cheap mass travel’

‘Stephenson comes to realise that he's actually the one who's ushered in this new age and decides to revel in it.’

‘A week later as the New Year was ushered in, another bomb was discovered at St George's monastery in Mosul.’

‘Finally the age of the dinosaurs is thought to have been ushered in and out by space objects striking the earth.’

‘It is the year the Great Depression was ushered in on the heels of the 1929 stock market crash.’

‘It closed a chapter of history that had been ushered in by the October revolution in 1917.’

‘The year was ushered in by starlit skies, a bright silvery moon and biting cold.’

‘The era of the all-seated stadium had been ushered in by a number of tragic accents at grounds.’

‘The era of modernism was really ushered in following the trauma of the First World War.’

‘With the walls of the hotel corridors becoming an Art Gallery the hotel has ushered in a new idea for promoting art.’

‘The party's leader, Charles Kennedy, said voters had ushered in a new era of three-party politics.’

‘But he isn't quite ready to declare that the story has ushered in a new media hierarchy.’

‘Nevertheless, it'd be nice if he ushered in a new era in professional sportsmanship.’

‘This randomised study is often seen as having ushered in a new era in making fair comparisons of alternative treatments.’

‘The end of the Cold War has ushered in a new epoch of imperialist conflicts.’

‘The Spanish civil war ushered in a new era in which the civilian population was enmeshed in the conflict.’

‘His leaving has ushered in a whole new phase for England rugby - the era of the Robinsons.’

‘The second century for the company ushered in a new era as a chemical company.’

‘Ultimately it does not sound a very easy task, but we believe the convention ushered in a new spirit and a new thought.’

‘But the pair have since ushered in a quiet revolution after assembling a brand new team.’

‘What the country urgently needs is assistance from the World Bank and other co-operating partners to usher its people into a progressive and productive phase devoid of poverty.’



Related Forms: 

unushered, adjective
ushership, noun
underusher, noun



French: 

  conduire,   accompagner
 il nous aait entrer au/sortir du salon
 placeur  m, placeusef
placeuse
 portier  m
 huissier  m
  inaugurer, marquer le début de



65. Coax

1 Gently and persistently persuade (someone) to do something.



Examples: 

‘the trainees were coaxed into doing boring work’

with object and infinitive ‘he was coaxing me to walk a bit further’

with direct speech ‘‘Come on now,’ I coaxed’

‘This year I was coaxed into starting my holiday baking early.’

‘He was coaxed into a reading and soon found himself studying with an acting coach, having his long hair cut to marine length for the part.’

‘After the fighting ended, he hid in the jungle for two years before he was coaxed into surrendering.’

‘Once he was finally coaxed into a room with some of the city's finest musicians last year, he was hooked.’

‘We weren't exactly abducted either, we were coaxed into coming into their house.’

‘They're yachts, mainly, and very beautiful, and it wasn't long before my wife was coaxed into taking lessons.’

‘It was his father who saw his potential and started cajoling and coaxing him into playing.’

‘I smiled and walked faster, coaxing him to walk faster too.’

‘He kept on trying to coax her to walk into the water, but she adamantly shook her head.’

‘The actors were somehow coaxed into performances that matched their gigantic surroundings.’

‘I had to go down and personally coax him out of the car so that we could get him back here.’

‘You might see a fairly significant change if you could coax him into going for a 30 minute walk most days of the week.’

‘She warns them that she doesn't want to wear the cloak but they insist and her mother coaxes her to go along with their request.’

‘Her natural buoyancy eventually coaxed us into conversation, and saved the day.’

‘Maybe he too had regrets, perhaps he wished he'd talked to him more often, coaxed him to spill out his memories and secrets.’

‘The pang in my belly coaxed me inside to see what their table had to offer.’

‘He waved at me as if he knew me already and coaxed me to come over and talk to him for while.’

‘The negotiators talked to him and managed to coax him out.’

‘I tried to coax him down but I could see he was terrified.’

‘I coax him to the table by setting out an open beer.’



1.1 Obtain something from (someone) by gentle and persistent persuasion.



Examples: 

‘we coaxed our fare money out of my father’

‘coaxing more speed from the car’

‘Many of his memories of his homeland are of sitting in traffic jams or waiting in lineups that ate up time he would have preferred to spend coaxing notes from his guitar.’

‘He is adept at coaxing performances from actors with little or no experience.’

‘The charities are brutally businesslike in coaxing dollars from the wallets of the super-rich.’

‘He coaxes strong performances out of most of his cast.’

‘I propped this glorious child on my shoulder and coaxed a burp from her.’

‘He coaxed a superb performance from the young actor.’

‘He's a big fella, well over 6 feet, with hands the size of tree stumps, but still able to coax sweet sounds from a guitar.’

‘If he can coax some defectors from the opposition, he may reach a majority.’

‘His timing remained exquisite, expertly coaxing laughs from the bleakest onscreen situation.’

‘Guided by an inner-something that could only have been instinct, she was soon making silly noises and coaxing delighted squeals from the little tyrant.’

‘He uses a prepared piano on a number of tracks, sometimes coaxing harpsichord-like timbres from it.’

‘She cocked her head to one side with a sly smile, like a toddler coaxing a treat from a grownup.’

‘Alex was coaxing a fire from the wet wood we'd gathered.’

‘She was the only attendee, watching intently as he coaxed snakes from one basket to another with the mouth of his oboe.’

‘He coaxes some excellent performances from his singers.’

‘The director coaxes some terrific performances from a noteworthy cast.’

‘She has coaxed excellent performances from the girls and uses animation and dream sequencey stuff extremely well.’

‘At dinner, he was the focus of everyone's attention, and they coaxed some information from him.’

‘He sharply criticizes the leader for using food aid as a diplomatic tool to coax concessions from rogue governments.’

‘She was able to coax new insights from those oft-interviewed.’



1.2 Arrange (something) carefully into a particular shape or position.



Examples: 

‘her lovely hair had been coaxed into ringlets’

‘Use a metal pastry scraper to coax the dough into shape, and a minimal sprinkling of flour, as necessary.’

‘When my turn arrives I slowly, carefully coax the boat round until the wind is directly behind it.’

‘Carefully, and ever so gently, Tristan coaxed my weight upwards to more of a sitting position.’

‘It is a special puzzle challenge to coax these sets into a symmetrical shape.’

‘Few of us have a team of trained hair professionals to dry, set, curl and coax our hair into perfection every morning.’

‘She coaxed the boys' hair into snowy peaks.’

‘You could try printing it on color transparency plastic and then heating it with a hair dryer whilst it is gently coaxed on to the surface of the mask.’

‘She shook her unruly mane of red hair, attempting and failing to coax it into some semblance of order.’

‘Some were seen coaxing their pigs up the stairs!’

‘My son caught it by knocking it off the car with a twig, then coaxing it on to a piece of card, and then putting it in a jam jar.’

‘Half an hour was spent coaxing it off the track to safety.’

‘After coaxing them to the surface with your feet, it's a simple matter of reaching down and scooping them up.’

‘After coaxing the bird on to his arm, he started to make his way back home.’

‘She placed the lantern in the boat and coaxed the pig aboard as it had crossed the river many times with her before.’

‘With a broad wooden scraper, he coaxed the paint back and forward before lifting the screen to survey his handiwork.’

‘He coaxed the mouse onto his hand and put it into a tiny wicker basket.’

‘The birds are in the trees, and if I could coax them down to my shoulder, then my trek may be warranted.’

‘He nodded, and soon she went about her work, coaxing the muddy roots from the ground for springtime use.’

‘She knew no greater thrill than coaxing a child from the womb, and receiving it alive into her own hands, wet, warm and squirming.’



 Coaxial cable.



Examples: 

‘After all, you can't lay fiber, buy cable modems and pay for cable TV with surplus coax.’

‘Another good antenna that's been popular around here for over 20 years is the ‘J-pole’ made from a piece of old TV antenna twin lead and a piece of coax.’

‘Today, a bad picture isn't a problem with the rabbit ears or a loose bit of coax: it means that the decompression of a digital video stream has gone all wonky.’

‘Yes, if I were a nesting bird, I'd find a coil of coax to be the perfect shape for a nest.’

‘It can serve up to four video streams simultaneously - one to a locally connected HDTV and three to additional client boxes connected via coax anywhere in the home.’



 Coaxial.



Examples: 

‘coax connectors’

‘In areas where cable modem service is available, the cable company can sculpt that down to the single coax line.’

‘Although both devices may have coax connections, once you see the image quality between them, you'll see why you should go with S-Video.’

‘Be it cable or satellite, just plug the coax cable into the coaxial cable input, and you have access for up to 125 channels.’

‘As multimedia enthusiasts can tell you, a coax connection is not the best choice for image quality, to put it mildly.’

‘In addition to the antennas supplied, the antenna connector on the hand held radio will accept a common coax antenna cable connector.’



Related Forms: 

half-coaxing, adjective
half-coaxingly, adverb
uncoaxing, adjective
uncoaxed, adjective
coaxingly, adverb
coaxer, noun



French: 

  cajoler,   enjôler
 àorce de nous cajoler, il nous a persuadés d'y aller
 il est parvenu à ouvrir la boîte enaisant levier avec un tournevis



66. Eminently

 To a notable degree; very.



Examples: 

‘an eminently readable textbook’

‘Despite these shortcomings, this is an interesting and eminently readable textbook.’

‘The result is an eminently readable account that captures the spirit of those heady days.’

‘Your level of participation is up to you and scheduling is eminently flexible.’

‘I am unwilling to be completely convinced by something which seems so eminently illogical.’

‘Rule four makes it sound eminently sensible, especially as it is voluntary.’

‘The experience offered here is a warm one, earthy and pleasurable, and eminently watchable.’

‘The result was two highly original and eminently durable clown characters.’

‘But our coverage of previous fundraising campaigns shows the target is eminently achievable.’

‘Scott is eminently watchable, playing a convincing rogue with gusto.’

‘The German architect and environmental expert is eminently qualified to speak on the problem.’

‘The only drawback to this eminently plausible case is that there is not a scrap of evidence for it.’

‘That is why the most entertaining concerts during the season were also eminently forgettable.’

‘Workplace health and safety is an eminently worthy topic, but not one that many people bother to follow closely.’

‘All of which are eminently curable with current methods and medicines.’

‘This is tricky on a rainy December afternoon but eminently possible at every hour of the day throughout August.’

‘That suddenly makes the cost of repairing our fine Victorian building seem eminently reasonable.’

‘Everything about this car is classic, yet it remains eminently affordable.’

‘It was a calamitous mistake, not least because it was eminently avoidable.’

‘We fail to plan for the worst and then act shocked when eminently predictable crises occur.’

‘My circumstances, while eminently enjoyable, are not helping my state of mind.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 éminemment
 qui convient parfaitement



67. Apathetic

 Showing or feeling no interest, enthusiasm, or concern.



Examples: 

‘an apathetic electorate’

‘The task at next year's Scottish elections is not only to win a majority but to arouse the enthusiasm of a generally apathetic public.’

‘The shareholders had also been shown to be apathetic in protecting their interests.’

‘I spent too much time just coasting and doing nothing and being really apathetic and indifferent.’

‘Furthermore, filling up on fatty foods like bacon or cheese makes you tired, lethargic and apathetic.’

‘The tigers paced desperately and the gorillas and chimps seemed listless and apathetic.’

‘Indifferent, apathetic, she has no reason to think her life will improve.’

‘Despite her uncaring appearance, apathetic tone, and collected posture, I could see the real change in her.’

‘Her friend seemed so apathetic and listless she wanted to shake her.’

‘As consumers, we have the power to refuse pop music that lulls us into numb, apathetic sleep.’

‘The adults must be prevented from getting bored, depressed and apathetic.’

‘While students in the 1960s were famed for their radicalism, students of today are labelled as apathetic.’

‘She's reluctant to suggest that women are staying away from the polling booths because they're merely apathetic.’

‘Or is it just that we have become overly apathetic and that doing anything about all it just seems too hard?’

‘Politicians (those few of an idealistic bent) complain that people are too apathetic.’

‘Have they inspired and mobilised people who were previously apathetic about the plight of refugees?’

‘At a time when apathetic youngsters are the hot topic of political debate, he is the exception that proves the rule.’

‘I found my players were paceless, apathetic and not really up for the challenge.’

‘Like a reformed smoker, he is the more zealous because until recently he was the archetypal apathetic customer.’

‘I don't think people are as apathetic as they seem, but it's hard to tell.’

‘Today's young people are said to be the most apathetic generation ever.’



Related Forms: 

apathetically, adverb



French: 

 apathique, indifférent



68. Tenet

 A principle or belief, especially one of the main principles of a religion or philosophy.



Examples: 

‘the tenets of classical liberalism’

‘No culture or religion can boast that its tenets are unique.’

‘People raised in a religion tend to accept its tenets, often without independent examination.’

‘One can try to apply the tenets of one's belief system to one's life.’

‘The main tenets of his argument were radically opposed to current thinking at the time.’

‘A central tenet of organic growing is the principle of feeding the soil, not the plant.’

‘They do not have books on Islam and its various teachings and tenets, which they could read and learn from.’

‘He reminded them of the basic tenets of biblical teaching.’

‘He was no stranger to the tenets of humanist educational theory.’

‘One of the central tenets of this ideology is the inherent inferiority and weakness of women.’

‘Curiously, he never engages with the central tenet of the thesis.’

‘Such discrimination violates central tenets of our liberal legal system, including the rule of law.’

‘The rule of law is one of the fundamental tenets of our democracy.’

‘We looked at the basic tenets that underlie the field of design.’

‘She was deeply devoted to the tenets of her Christian faith.’

‘He outlines brilliantly the basic tenets of Conservatism.’

‘The best way to combat inflation is to stick to the basic tenets of sound investing.’

‘One of the tenets of Christianity is forgiveness.’

‘One of the most basic tenets of military strategy is never give up the high ground.’

‘Under the tenets of International Law they must surely qualify as war criminals.’

‘Either you respect the basic tenets of civilised society, or you face the consequences.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 principe  m, dogme  m
 croyance 



69. Scull

1 Each of a pair of small oars used by a single rower.



Examples: 

‘As well as traditional rowing oars and sculls, they manufacture oars for surf boat rowing, and transatlantic teams.’



1.1 An oar placed over the stern of a boat to propel it by a side to side motion, reversing the blade at each turn.



Examples: 

1.2 A light, narrow boat propelled with a scull or a pair of sculls.



Examples: 

‘their current training programme involves two outings a day at the weekend in their single sculls’

‘He has supported his wife, Sonia, in her successful quest to qualify a single sculls boat for the Athens Olympics.’

‘This year he trained the light scull world champion Victoria Dimitrova as well as Neikova.’

‘The two friends had gone for a light row and were turning the double scull boat opposite the boat slip at the Rowing Club when Kieran became suddenly ill.’

‘The unique feature of this concept is that the eight and the quadruple sculls will be raced by mixed crews made up of men and women.’

‘By concentrating on the sculls and not breathing, the sculls become faster with more power output.’

‘The vice-president of the club, Bhavani Shankar, said the club had been changing its style of boat race training from traditional boats to sculls.’

‘A 3,000-meter rowing course with submersible lane markers is laid out on the Lower Otay Lake to accommodate athletes training in sweeps and sculls.’

‘After we had all got ourselves into our lovely smelling kit, our training cox Rachel gave a talk about safety and then taught us how to pick up an eight scull boat and put it in the river.’

‘The first event was raced in a fixed seat single scull for rowers who are unable to use their legs.’

‘What is next when you're the fastest man in the world in a single scull?’



1.3 A race between boats in which each participant uses a pair of oars.



Examples: 

‘he competed for the cross-country team and later concentrated on single sculls’

‘Anne Homa won women's S1 single sculls and Anna Mahlamaki won women's novice sculls in her first race in a sculling boat despite clipping the bank a few times.’

‘Nikree is concentrating on the double sculls to be raced tomorrow, and Yung did well despite nursing a sprained ankle which she sustained earlier this week.’

‘This meant that the junior men's and junior women's quadruple sculls, together with three final races in the Japan Cup, were not held.’

‘One of the day's most dramatic races came in the final of the women's quadruple sculls.’

‘All three heavyweight women's crews won medals: two silvers, for the women's pair and the quadruple sculls, bronze for the double scull.’

‘The other qualifiers yesterday were the men's quadruple sculls.’

‘Sarah Birch, who was a World Champion in 2001 and fifth in the women's lightweight pair, switches to the lightweight women's quadruple sculls.’

‘Britain's women's quadruple sculls hopefuls have a week to focus on gold after qualifying with ease for next Sunday's final.’

‘Also racing in today's finals will be Scotland's Olympic silver medallist Katherine Grainger, who along with her Marlow and Leander crewmates, won the women's quadruple sculls yesterday.’

‘As a rower on the 2000 U.S. Olympic team, Nuzum managed an eighth-place finish in the heavyweight double sculls in the Sydney Games.’

‘The event, sponsored by Henri Lloyd, also includes women's and men's sculls, novice races and dragon boat racing.’

‘She followed that with World Cup gold in the women's quadruple scull in Poznan and a silver in the same boat in Munich with substitute Sarah Winckless on board.’

‘Andrea Finn was second along with three members of other clubs, including Sydney Olympics silver medallist Guin Batten in the women's quadruple scull.’

‘The main events finished on the predicted lines as the host's teams made it to all the finals of the four events - single and double sculls, coxswainless pairs and coxed fours.’

‘In modern terms this is called double sculls, where each rower has two oars apiece.’

‘In the women's single sculls, the heats were won by Yoon Hui Lee and Chien Ju Chiang.’

‘First up in the breezy but not overwhelmingly difficult conditions yesterday was Ian Lawson, in the men's single sculls.’



1 Propel a boat with sculls.



Examples: 

‘he built boats and taught the gentlemen how to scull’

‘World Cup single sculling champion Miroslava Knapkova was in complete control of her heat as she sculled in nearly half a minute up on the field including Dutch Challenge Cup winner Myke Mol.’

‘Greatly curious, the American fishermen lifted anchor and sculled over with oars.’

‘Dick Gradley sculled well to win men's veteran H handicapped sculls in 17-59.’

‘Joe Fricker sculled confidently to win Senior 1 and 3 single sculls.’

‘Dan Clarke of York City sculled well to win both novice single and double sculls, where he was joined by this year's captain Dan Beaumont.’

‘‘You're a natural,’ said Coach Paul as I sculled for the first time in my life.’

‘Steph Gant sculled competently at the higher level of Women's Senior 2 Single Sculls.’

‘Ann Homa, of York City, sculled well to win both women's senior class one and veteran class B sculls.’

‘Coracles are paddled, or more correctly sculled, not to the stern but rather toward the bow using a figure-eight stroke.’

‘Nearly every exercise class you can think of is offered here, and you can also hike, canoe, scull and kayak.’

‘Joe Lyon sculled his best race of the season so far by winning men's junior 16 single sculls in 16-00.’

‘On the mirror-like surface of this pond at midday, as it seemed (the scene in the novel takes place at stormy night, and still-stormy early dawn), Maggie sculled her way to the mill.’



1.1 Transport (someone) in a boat propelled with sculls.



Examples: 

‘she had to be sculled through the floods’



1.2 (of an aquatic animal) propel itself with fins or flippers.



Examples: 

‘the limbs were modified into efficient paddles, perfectly adapted for sculling through the water’

‘A green turtle sculled towards us, stopping only a metre away.’



1 A large group of fish which has migrated from the open sea to inshore waters.



Examples: 

1.1 The annual migration of fish from the open sea to inshore waters.



Examples: 

Related Forms: 

sculler, noun



French: 

 godille 
 aviron  m
 yole 
  godiller
  ramer
 ramer en couple
aire de l'aviron



70. Pantheon

1 A group of particularly respected, famous, or important people.



Examples: 

‘the pantheon of the all-time greats’

‘It is populated by a pantheon of upper-middle class aesthetes, running the full gamut from self-indulgence to self-pity, gold-digging doctors and junkie beggars.’

‘IN THE pantheon of rock family dynasties, one surely stands head and shoulders above the others.’

‘I have been accumulating bits and pieces of information on Skurt Doyle for many years, always conscious of his importance in the pantheon of local sporting legends of the past.’

‘Let's hope it also restores Sirk's dusty reputation and puts him in the pantheon of all-time great film-makers, where he belongs.’

‘Some members of the academy feel that Coelho's work is best classed as ‘literature light’ and not worthy of a place in the pantheon of the country's intellectual and literary heavyweights.’

‘John Rae may not be a household name in the pantheon of Arctic explorers yet, but if Ken McGoogan has his way, that will change.’

‘It's a really solid album and it puts her in the pantheon of great new country artists.’

‘The pantheon of legendary female rockers and rappers is woefully small.’

‘T-Stew is a rare talent, race fans, and he's quickly driving his way into the pantheon of the all-time greats - the place where Petty, Pearson and Earnhardt all reside.’

‘Abbey at full stretch remains a great writer and he'll stay in the pantheon for all time.’

‘As virgin patroness of the canons at Chich, Osith here joins a pantheon of elite women, both in terms of her companion texts and the manuscript's users.’

‘She is very funny and is almost worthy to join the pantheon of female comediennes of the Cicely Courtneidge and Beatrice Lillie rank.’

‘Superman and Batman and the rest of the superhero pantheon are more popular today than they've ever been.’

‘Both of these are outstanding performers have entered the national pantheon of Australian sporting heroes.’

‘The minimalist Argentinian writer Borges turns out to be the most important figure in Eco's private literary pantheon.’

‘Regardless of where you rank Joe Frazier in the all-time heavyweight pantheon, on March 8th of 1971 he was one of the greatest heavyweights of all-time.’

‘Since then, Chan has become a part of the nationwide pop culture pantheon.’

‘Either path could secure his position at the very top of the all time cycling pantheon.’

‘How wonderful to welcome countertenors into this elite vocal pantheon, and especially Taylor, who is definitely among the very best.’



1.1 A building in which the illustrious dead of a nation are buried or honoured.



Examples: 

‘This is a proposal to create an Aosdána-style pantheon to honour major artists - although even here there is confusion over whether this should be an initiative to help up-and-coming artists.’

‘Johnson reckons there should be a special place reserved for Nairn on any new national pantheon built after Scotland regains its proper statehood.’



2 All the gods of a people or religion collectively.



Examples: 

‘the deities of the Hindu pantheon’

‘This makes Hinduism unique in the sense that it is a monotheistic religion with a pantheon of manifested forms of God.’

‘It is directed to a pantheon of deities, gods and goddesses, each of whom are housed in their own shrine.’

‘Even though there was a risk that some detractors might use this verse as proof that there are a pantheon of gods rather than one, God deemed this principle so important that it's worth the risk.’

‘Heading south to Maui, a different kind of legend reigns: that of the demigod Maui, the only god in the Hawaiian pantheon for whom an island is named.’

‘In the Hindu pantheon, everything is looked upon as a form of God.’

‘Doesn't the Torah describe man as being the very last creature to appear in God's pantheon?’

‘Doing some patron saint research, I stumbled on this page here, which starts as an examination of Eleggua / Exu figures through some of the world's pantheons, but also links over to the other Orisha.’

‘Since I work with many spirits and pantheons shamanically I don't feel that it's possible to commit to the afro-caribbean deities and spirits in the way that they would demand.’

‘The merging of local deities into a larger national deity and the incorporation of foreign deities into a specific pantheon were not limited to Egypt.’

‘The Hermetic tradition, for example, frequently mixes and matches deities from different pantheons, but it does so with a deep understanding of what it's affecting and why.’

‘Mann clearly realized that the Dravidian gods and goddesses in fact subverted the Hindu pantheon and changed the substance of the Aryan religion through their very presence in it.’

‘Playing musical instruments is an integral part of any temple festival as musical instruments are attached to several deities in the Hindu pantheon.’

‘The Thanjavur paintings are intricately decorated with goldleaf and semi precious stones, most feature baby Krishna and other deities of the Hindu pantheon.’

‘Interestingly, the forces of nature which destroy the muck, the wind and water, are the elements of feminine deities in the Yoruba pantheon of Orisha.’

‘In this case, Ur-Nammu refers specifically to Nanna, the patron deity of Ur - as well as the other leading deities of the Sumerian pantheon.’

‘We decided to celebrate the Sabbats by composing rituals to Goddesses of the Celtic pantheon.’

‘The advent of Islam to South Arabia in the seventh century ousted local pantheons and monotheistic cults.’

‘Bottero's concise explanation of henotheism clarifies how a pantheon, with its bewildering myriad of gods, becomes personalised through personal preference for a single deity.’

‘The Tuath De Danaan in fact comprise most of the Celtic pantheon - Lugh, the Celtic version of Lucifer - is revered, and is also a bringer of light.’



2.1 (especially in ancient Greece and Rome) a temple dedicated to all the gods.



Examples: 

‘The enormous building, called the Pantheon, was built as a temple to all the Roman gods almost 2,000 years ago.’

‘The Roman Pantheon is the most preserved and influential building of ancient Rome. It is a Roman temple dedicated to all the gods of pagan Rome.’



Related Forms: 

pantheonic, adjective



French: 

 panthéon  m



71. Capricious

1 Given to sudden and unaccountable changes of mood or behaviour.



Examples: 

‘a capricious and often brutal administration’

‘It's an amusing idea, that even the harbingers of capitalism are subject to the ever-changing moods of capricious Mother Nature.’

‘It is capricious and fickle, changing moods easily.’

‘In any event, I reserve the right to be arbitrary and capricious in choosing which comments to delete because they cross the line.’

‘I have a strange, queasy feeling that I can never impart to him about how capricious and arbitrary a regime like this can be.’

‘Even those who have climbed in the Alps or the lower Himalayas, find it hard to understand the appeal of such a brutal and capricious mountain.’

‘Let us say that on a rare, windy day in Waterloo, someone leaves a copy of our beloved Imprint on a bench outside, completely at the mercy of the fickle, capricious wind.’

‘While the sprites that run the weather here are capricious, their temperaments are contained within some very strict limits.’

‘Please allow me to maintain my self-image as capricious, arbitrary and unfair.’

‘It is an immensely tough way of living but one which now, with over-grazing and an increasingly capricious climate, is beginning to look very vulnerable.’

‘It is as if we, temperamental and capricious, have been having a stormy affair with aloof, indifferent El Niño.’

‘The capricious god changed Ariadne into the Corona Cressa, or Cretan Diadem, already visible in the heavens in Titian's Bacchus and Ariadne as an omen at their first meeting.’

‘Exhausted and in constant pain, she had to contend with vast, unfathomable personality changes that made her capricious, indecisive, impatient and intolerant.’

‘He can be so sweet sometimes, he's just very capricious and whimsical.’

‘Ultimately, that's for the voters to decide, and recent history shows them to be a mercurial, at times capricious lot.’

‘The woman was so fickle-minded and capricious that Agueda often found herself confused.’

‘Luckily enough, ostriches are not capricious animals and easily adapt to the climate in Bulgaria.’

‘The true gods are fickle and capricious and care little for the affairs of men, but the piper was different.’

‘Nature is regarded as the provider of bounty, but also as wild, awesome and capricious, with unpredictable catastrophes, like floods and storms at sea.’

‘I miss her because she was capricious and unreliable, and because minis are the kind of car that make people smile.’

‘It will be a difficult task as the ship has become overloaded, capricious and the ocean is tempestuous.’



1.1 Changing according to no discernible rules; unpredictable.



Examples: 

‘a capricious climate’

‘In short, they're picky eaters, and their appetites are capricious and unpredictable.’

‘Relatively incorrupt, they brought an end to the capricious violence of the warlords who ruled in the post-Soviet vacuum.’

‘Having laws you're not going to enforce is an invitation for capricious and arbitrary prosecution.’

‘The increasing confidence of the Irish labour force means that employees are less inclined to tolerate biased, arbitrary or capricious employer decisions.’

‘In that event the basis for the exercise of power is absent, just as if it were shown that the opinion was arbitrary, capricious, irrational, or not bona fide.’

‘Copies of the memorandum went to the membership of appeals committees that had found the provost's decisions to be arbitrary and capricious.’

‘Targeting aid resources without adequate awareness of the size of the population involved in illicit crops is capricious and arbitrary.’

‘Your Honour, from my perspective I am trying to understand the arbitrary and capricious argument that my learned friends are putting forward.’

‘Whatever the cause, it would appear arbitrary and capricious to limit the number of years students are given to learn English.’

‘Objectively, it seems to me it's arbitrary, capricious, inconsistent.’

‘Upon such changing moods, and seemingly capricious events, the future spiritual welfare of our nation has depended.’

‘To claim that God engages in this same capricious and barbaric behavior is to blaspheme God.’

‘But Powell's fatalistic words do convey a career military man's appreciation of the arbitrary and capricious nature of war.’

‘The workings of the system were entirely capricious and arbitrary.’

‘Georgia, the Supreme Court temporarily ended the death penalty in America, deeming its application arbitrary and capricious.’

‘To a casual observer, the conversation might have seemed haphazard and capricious: it was anything but.’

‘Arbitrary and capricious rather than democratic procedures prevailed.’

‘In using the police power in this broad way, municipalities can avoid charges of arbitrary and capricious acts.’

‘In those circumstances the arrest, though subsequently found to be unlawful, could not be said to be capricious or arbitrary.’

‘The purpose of the provision in paragraph 18.15 is to prevent arbitrary or capricious searches.’



Related Forms: 

noncapriciousness, noun
uncapriciously, adverb
noncapriciously, adverb
capriciousness, noun
noncapricious, adjective
uncapriciousness, noun
capriciously, adverb
uncapricious, adjective



French: 

 capricieux,antasque
 capricieux, changeant



72. Whimsical

1 Playfully quaint or fanciful, especially in an appealing and amusing way.



Examples: 

‘a whimsical sense of humour’

‘Many of the pieces have come from his own personal collection - which reveal his witty and whimsical sense of humour, and a love of the bush.’

‘Fonseca's pictures are at once whimsical and orderly, playful and restrained.’

‘This album was largely whimsical and retrospective, with a subtle sense of humour, even through the more serious numbers.’

‘Often intended for children, such verse also appeals to an adult sense of the ridiculous or whimsical.’

‘But how many know the story of J.M. Barrie, the eccentric author of the whimsical Peter Pan?’

‘This whimsical piece of mischief by his brother brought a quiet laugh from David.’

‘Helen Evans has fourteen gouache paintings, bright, whimsical and cartoon-like, most depicting the antics of her dog Hobbs.’

‘How did an impoverished North Philadelphia community transform abandoned lots into whimsical sculpture gardens?’

‘Ali's whimsical rendering of this imagined place evokes subtle feelings of nostalgia, and regret.’

‘Frater surely pays his respects to the whimsical monsoon gods through his pilgrimage covering the length and breadth of the country.’

‘The question is whimsical, but perhaps it illustrates something.’

‘A father and son children's book: vivid illustrations by son Carl, whimsical poems by father Peter.’

‘Some spoilsport reviewers have referred to the lyrics as smug and smirking; I prefer to view them as wry and whimsical.’

‘Though some are light and whimsical, they emerge from a passion for both writing and reading that goes beyond mere observation.’

‘She and friends would flip the painting from the more serious to the whimsical side during parties at Emmott's house many years ago.’

‘For those of you left with any doubt, the play is musical, whimsical and highly enjoyable - a perfect family night out.’

‘It has terrific moments, especially early on, often anticipating Fellini in tone and setting, but it is a bit too jauntily whimsical for us now.’

‘The ceiling is hung with lamps of every shape and size, from glass floats tied with rope to whimsical creations made of seashells.’

‘His new song Mother and Child opened the dedication service and captured the whimsical and delightful spirit of the work.’

‘Looking out the window, I can see an orange flame of whimsical light skimming the horizon, and hues of blue to grey look down benignly from above.’



2 Acting or behaving in a capricious manner.



Examples: 

‘the whimsical arbitrariness of autocracy’

‘Mulvany could also build in a light and whimsical manner, especially when it came to gate lodges.’

‘Victims of the whimsical monsoons and fickle market prices, these poor farmers have very little control over their destiny.’

‘Last night, our coach got a little whimsical and changed up the infield a bit.’

‘He closed his eyes and listened to the Forestmaster's whimsical voice change to a somber, sorrowful tone.’

‘A solid master plan helps prevent whimsical changes being made by each new greens committee’

‘This is a story about rootlessness, about impulsive, ostensibly whimsical wandering.’

‘John was known as a whimsical man who often changed the inventory of his cargo to fit his mood.’

‘The High Court said while granting maintenance, some formula or yardstick must be adopted and it must not be whimsical or arbitrary.’

‘They clearly seek to exercise power in whimsical and arbitrary ways.’



Related Forms: 

whimsicalness, noun
unwhimsical, adjective
unwhimsicalness, noun
whimsicality (ˌwɪmzɪˈkælɪtɪ), noun
whimsically, adverb
unwhimsically, adverb



French: 

 capricieux,antasque
 étrange, insolite



73. Austerity

1 Sternness or severity of manner or attitude.



Examples: 

‘he was noted for his austerity and his authoritarianism’

‘Idealism, integrity, austerity, sacrifice; these were the signatures of the middle class to which they belonged.’

‘His chin is firm, mouth straight and serious, a hint of austerity balanced by humour in the corners.’

‘Joyce regards his world variously, with rigorous irony, satiric austerity - yet with unflagging magnanimity and pervasive humor.’

‘Virgil's purpose was moral, and his main concern is to describe the farmer's virtues of austerity, integrity, and hard work, which made Rome great.’

‘He was a mix of austerity and kindness, often a sweet and solicitous friend.’

‘In observable characteristics, Saturn depicts someone who is characterised by austerity or seriousness.’

‘She has added an element of sophisticated glamour to his image of Presbyterian austerity.’

‘The austerity that one normally associates with courthouses is also quickly dispelled by the sight of a roaring open fire, a sight to delight on a cold, wet January night.’



1.1 Plainness and simplicity in appearance.



Examples: 

‘the room was decorated with a restraint bordering on austerity’

‘There is elegance to the restraint and austerity of the imagery that extends to, or perhaps finds inspiration in, the clean utility of the printed page.’

‘The simplicity and the austerity of Huguenot ritual reflects their thoroughgoing sense of the difference between physical and spiritual ‘death.’’

‘The geometric segments of the sails have a quite mathematical purity and austerity.’

‘At times, however, music of great austerity and purity is shattered by painful, pounding discords.’

‘Particularly relevant is Hawes's preference for an architecture of honesty and austerity, stripped of unnecessary embellishment and free of copyism.’

‘I especially love Inuit art for its austerity and cleanliness.’

‘In this historical context, the director's main aim is to remind the audience of virtues such as coherence, austerity, passion and faith.’

‘A lot of the architecture in the city centre as a whole dates from the turn of the 19th century into the 20th and is a mixture of Victorian austerity and art nouveau decadence.’

‘Like it or not, the beauty of mathematics springs from its rigorous austerity.’

‘It had charm despite its austerity: a few books and an empty vase on the sideboard.’

‘His uncanny, unmistakable style crossed Cubist austerity with lush Surrealism.’



1.2 A feature of an austere way of life.



Examples: 

‘his uncle's austerities had undermined his health’

‘She matured, and the family she came from grew into power and riches, during the last, magnificent flowering of the Papacy before it was threatened by the austerities of the Reformation.’

‘That is not to say that we must deliberately seek out physical austerities, because this may have the wrong effect.’

‘Such austerities were employed in an attempt to gain insight into the fundamental nature of existence.’

‘The mind is not softened by fasting or austerities.’

‘Many also practised severe austerities, subjecting themselves to extremes of temperature, hunger and thirst, painful bodily distortions, and various other kinds of self-denial.’

‘Alive, they lit fewer votive candles, and showed less interest in religious confraternities or the austerities of the monastic life.’

‘During his extensive wanderings, he practiced great austerities, but apparently became disillusioned with these methods.’

‘Suddenly, the austerities of the past two months, as well as the glorious thoughts, dreams and visions all merged within my consciousness.’

‘By reciting certain mantras and performing austerities one's consciousness is expanded and one develops supernatural abilities.’

‘As he approaches 80, he seems to be relaxing some of the long-held austerities of his art.’

‘The four-and-a-half hours of sleep a night is only part of the austerities practiced here.’

‘They are not formally bound to the evangelical counsels of perfection nor do they practice visible austerities.’

‘The austerities of the Second World War and its aftermath put an end to whimsical parties.’



2 Difficult economic conditions created by government measures to reduce public expenditure.



Examples: 

‘the country was subjected to acute economic austerity’

count noun austerities ‘the austerities of post-war London’

‘International financial investors appeared satisfied, at least for the moment, with a new round of economic austerity measures that provoked crippling strikes by the Argentine workers last week.’

‘A small degree of economic growth was recorded in 1995, despite a sense of economic crisis in the country, which led to the introduction of economic austerity measures.’

‘A program of austerity measures and economic reforms may please foreign capital but it will not guarantee popular support.’

‘The continuation of economic austerity policies under these conditions has provoked a wave of upheavals throughout the continent.’

‘The austerity measures have created a pool of discontented young men, with no prospect of a job or a future, who are being exploited by militia leaders for their own ends.’

‘Further cuts and austerity measures affecting social expenditure can already be foreseen.’

‘Earlier this year, China launched austerity measures to reduce the amount of construction activity in leading cities to prevent the economy from overheating.’

‘The downturn in the economy caused the government to impose harsh austerity measures.’

‘The new austerity measures include higher taxes on wages and pensions and a value-added tax on services, such as transportation, which up to now had been exempt.’

‘The protesters are demanding the government rescind a series of austerity measures that would tax workers' wages and pensions.’

‘In this manner the culture of austerity forces otherwise reluctant workers into the labour market thus helps keep wages down.…’

‘After the devastation of war and years of austerity, the Festival aimed to raise the nation's spirits whilst promoting the very best in British art, design and industry.’

‘The festival aimed to raise the nation's spirits following the war and years of austerity, whilst promoting the very best in British art, design and industry.’

‘If the European Commission and EcoFin can actually manage to force Germany and France into austerity programs with the threat of fiscal sanctions, then the supranational argument wins the day.’

‘When Canadians patiently accepted cutbacks to health care, unemployment insurance, and many other social programs, we were told that all this austerity was necessary to attract foreign investors.’

‘The subject of the campaign, ironically, is fiscal austerity,’ Campbell said in a press release.’

‘After the lean austerity of the war years a growing number of Australian fashion designers were able to source a wide range of materials to create stunning garments for all manner of social occasions.’

‘But after 1945, Britain was marked by austerity.’

‘The war years brought loss of loved ones, social change, times of austerity, an awareness of New Zealand's vulnerability, and defence measures.’

‘Oh, well, in the war, of course it was austerity; the whole centre of Manchester was totally destroyed.’

‘Moreover, colourful and spectacular films provided a welcome means of escape from the austerities of the post-war era.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 austérité , sobriété 
 austérité 
 austérité ,  pratique   austère
 d'austérité



74. Atrophy

1 (of body tissue or an organ) waste away, especially as a result of the degeneration of cells, or become vestigial during evolution.



Examples: 

‘the calf muscles will atrophy’

‘The cells gradually degenerate over a period of time and cause paralysis as muscles atrophy throughout the body.’

‘The retinal pigment membrane cells slowly degenerate and atrophy, and central vision is lost.’

‘In addition, your muscles might atrophy and you could have trouble walking.’

‘As a result, muscles become atrophied, or wasted.’

‘Just like other muscles, the brain atrophies if not used.’

‘Creatine has also been tested with positive results in those whose muscles have atrophied due to neuromuscular diseases.’

‘Extended periods in low or zero gravity take their toll on the human body: bones begin to decalcify as they experience less stress, and muscles atrophy, also as a result of disuse.’

‘Even after the original injury has healed, patients may still be in pain or very susceptible because their muscles have atrophied and there's nothing protecting them from sprains and strains.’

‘In 1939 he underwent surgery for a brain tumour and emerged with one side of his face paralysed, his tongue atrophied and his behaviour even more erratic.’

‘Computed tomography scans showed that her cerebral hemispheres had atrophied, and electroencephalograms showed that she was without any cortical activity.’

‘The brain actually atrophies when it isn't stimulated enough.’

‘In space, the blood itself becomes weightless, and the heart will eventually atrophy because it has to work less to pump blood through the body.’

‘The main goal is for him to regain strength in his shoulder, back and upper arm because the muscles could atrophy from non-use.’

‘The gland then atrophies if it doesn't rot away.’

‘Her muscles haven't atrophied at all, and according to all data, she's in perfect health.’

‘Her muscles had atrophied in her hindquarters giving her front half a bulky football player look.’

‘I watched my hard-earned muscles atrophy and I knew my cardiovascular endurance was diminishing every day Although I felt depressed and frustrated, I knew I was lucky to be alive.’

‘‘As with any organic being after death, tissues will decompose and the body will atrophy, making actual measurements change over time,’ Holyoak said.’

‘As the body ages, muscles begin to atrophy, slowly being replaced by fat.’

‘Listen, Lorus, his body has atrophied to the point where he can't move.’



2 Gradually decline in effectiveness or vigour due to underuse or neglect.



Examples: 

‘the imagination can atrophy from lack of use’

‘For creativity is a muscle that must be worked or it will gradually atrophy and wither.’

‘It is difficult to envision how this inflationary boom can run smoothly for a sector so atrophied after years of neglect.’

‘The meeting would have gone well but being a blogger and spending most of my free time online, my social skills have atrophied to the point where I can now barely manage to get served in shops.’

‘The obvious concern with a decline in reading is that such a trend causes critical thinking skills and one's imagination to atrophy.’

‘But unless we allow our imaginations to become completely atrophied, we will be influenced by both secular art and the base obscenities that are prevalent in our society.’

‘With everyone's imagination atrophied, no one will ever be a threat to the world.’

‘It has been a very busy couple of months and unfortunately this blog has rather atrophied from lack of time and input.’

‘He says, ‘We have undermined the purpose of the United Nations and caused its effectiveness to atrophy.’’

‘‘Mainframe skills have been atrophying in the U.S.,’ he says.’

‘Not surprisingly, the social skills of children atrophy when they watch television instead of playing.’

‘As the long-term unemployed lose touch with the labour market, their self-esteem falls and their job skills atrophy.’

‘Command and control involves perishable skills that atrophy in the absence of training.’

‘One consequence of this development is that their imaginations are beginning to atrophy: play is all about the destination, rather than the journey.’

‘Perhaps a radical change of pace is exactly the stimulus this brilliant musician needs to help him realize his full artistic potential before it atrophies altogether.’

‘Cabinet government of the traditional model has manifestly atrophied over the past seven years, by deliberate neglect, not accident.’

‘Contrast that reality with the medical profession, say, whose practitioners would soon find themselves uninsurable were they to permit their professional knowledge and skills to atrophy.’

‘There would be a flurry of coding and decoding activity in time of war, but with the coming of peace, cryptographic knowledge and skills would atrophy and have to be relearned again at the next outbreak of hostilities.’

‘There's no telling how much further my language skills will atrophy.’

‘The sciences atrophied during the post-World War I industrial decline.’

‘I haven't done anything except costumes for so long that my imagination in that area is atrophied.’

‘Whatever hitting skills these transient players once had are now atrophied from disuse.’



 The process of atrophying or state of having atrophied.



Examples: 

‘gastric atrophy’

‘extensive TV viewing may lead to atrophy of children's imaginations’

‘Evaluation of the wrist should begin with identifying erythema, swelling, masses, skin lesions, muscle atrophy, contractures, scars, or other obvious deformities.’

‘Spinal muscular atrophy is a degenerative condition which is untreatable.’

‘Physical therapy is directed at preventing atrophy and contractures, and is particularly necessary in patients with calcinosis and muscle involvement.’

‘The pelvic examination should include an evaluation for inflammation, infection and atrophy.’

‘During the immobilization of a fracture, all nonimmobilized parts must be moved to avoid stiffness, muscle atrophy and joint contractures.’

‘Patients who are overweight often suffer from muscle atrophy caused by inactivity, which worsens back symptoms and problems.’

‘Muscles deteriorate in microgravity conditions; significant muscle atrophy has been seen in humans after only five days in space.’

‘MRI revealed temporal lobe atrophy in two patients presenting with dementia.’

‘Potential complications associated with long-term steroid use are atrophy, steroid-induced acne, rosacea, and striae.’

‘MRI reveals relative atrophy of the frontal lobes and the anterior temporal lobes.’

‘Polio, a disease that attacks the nervous system, usually infects young children resulting in paralysis and muscular atrophy.’

‘This loss occurs because of quadricep inhibition, which then leads to muscle atrophy.’

‘Repair within three weeks of injury is recommended to avoid tendon retraction, reinjury, tendon degeneration and muscle atrophy.’

‘Researchers administered cognitive function tests to 3,734 men, obtained brain images from 574 men, and evaluated brain atrophy in 290 male autopsy results.’

‘Because of atrophy, cervical stenosis, or other conditions, obtaining satisfactory cervical samples from older women may be difficult.’

‘Mucosal atrophy may result when dietary sources of fatty acids are lacking or when the fecal stream is diverted by an ileostomy or colostomy.’

‘Coeliac disease is characterised histologically by total or subtotal villous atrophy.’

‘It usually presents with pain and muscle weakness with atrophy in the shoulder girdle.’

‘Decreased grip strength may result in loss of dexterity, and thenar muscle atrophy may develop if the syndrome is severe.’

‘Lack of gravitational forces leads to muscle atrophy, decreased muscle tone and strength, and neuromuscular changes (eg, fatigue, slowed tendon reflexes).’

‘It has been theorized that changes in everyday experiences and activity patterns may result in disuse and consequent atrophy of cognitive processes and skills.’

‘This is also called optic atrophy, and may be present at birth or may appear because of a condition such as diabetes.’



Related Forms: 

nonatrophic, adjective
atrophic (əˈtrɒfɪk), adjective
atrophic  [uh-trof-ik, uh-troh-fik] /əˈtrɒf ɪk, əˈtroʊ fɪk/, adjective



French: 

 atrophie 
  s'atrophier
 atrophier



75. Eurika

Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



76. Apocryphal

1 (of a story or statement) of doubtful authenticity, although widely circulated as being true.



Examples: 

‘an apocryphal story about a former president’

‘his alleged description of opera as ‘fat gits singing’ is probably apocryphal’

‘Urban legends are apocryphal or wildly inaccurate stories that are passed on from person to person until they reach a point where they are accepted as truth.’

‘Other stories that sound apocryphal are unfortunately true.’

‘I have no idea whether or not the above story is true or apocryphal, but I'd like to believe it anyway.’

‘It may be an apocryphal story, but I was once told that cool-looking out-of-work actors and students were employed by publishers to read particular books on the London underground.’

‘This story is surely apocryphal, but it does sound like an announcement with a story behind it!’

‘The story is probably apocryphal, since botanical evidence suggests that the coffee plant originated in the highlands of central Ethiopia.’

‘More convincing than this thorough inspection of apocryphal statements and chronological details are the passages in which Bann teaches us how to see early photographic reproductions of art.’

‘The apocryphal story of Robert Bruce watching the spider spin its web seven times, which restored his faith to battle the English once again, became a staple of inspirational lecturers.’

‘Whether this story is apocryphal or not, it accurately reflects the band's philosophy and perhaps predicts the directions their music would take.’

‘The story is apocryphal, but is a good indication of the extreme measures countries take to protect the secret that they can read an enemy's secrets.’

‘Could his death have been the consequence of a greedy search for treasure, or is this yet another apocryphal story?’

‘Many baseball reporters claim the story is apocryphal, but others insist on its verity.’

‘Those who have never worked in a restaurant believe that such stories are apocryphal.’

‘Perhaps someday this apocryphal tale will become what it should be: an illustration of how easily even ‘experts’ can sometimes fall victim to the very same dangers they warn us about.’

‘The story - probably apocryphal - is that William Webb Ellis at Rugby School in the nineteenth century picked up the ball during a soccer match and ran with it, inventing rugby.’

‘According to an apocryphal legend, when the Titanic took its passengers to their watery graves, the P&J offered up the headline ‘Northeast man drowned at sea’.’

‘In much the same way that the - no doubt - apocryphal tale of the mum writing her son a note excusing him from gym the following week because ‘he will have flu’ always raises a titter.’

‘It reminded me of the apocryphal tale of the Rolls Royce mechanics that appear halfway up a Swiss mountain to fix a faulty gearbox then refuse to charge the owner for the repairs because a Rolls Royce never breaks down.’

‘Well his mother tells that now famous story about the Bible resting open on a stand in the middle of Bob Dylan's study, as an indispensable source for his music; is that apocryphal?’

‘All stories attributing the ending of slavery to Lincoln should be regarded as apocryphal, a mere creation of pro-Lincoln civil rights forces.’



1.1 Of or belonging to the Apocrypha.



Examples: 

‘the apocryphal Gospel of Thomas’

‘Even highly exalted men, like the authors of apocryphal books, Daniel, for instance, and Enoch, committed, to aid their cause, and without the shadow of a scruple, acts which we should call frauds.’

‘None of this of course is in the New Testament, although once again some elements of these stories can be found in what we call the apocryphal New Testament, later Christian writings.’

‘These include biblical, apocryphal, sectarian, and legal writings.’

‘The apocryphal gospels uniformly insisted that Joseph was an old widower who was not Mary's husband, but her ‘guardian.’’

‘In both the biblical book of Proverbs and the apocryphal book of Wisdom of Solomon, Wisdom is personified and is said to participate in God's creative activity.’

‘The New Testament writers never quote from any of the apocryphal books.’

‘Rose refers to the apocryphal book, Wisdom of Solomon, as ‘scripture’.’

‘Beyond Belief is about the apocryphal Gospel of Thomas, written in the second century and much amended later, which Pagels prefers to the canonical Gospels, and especially to the Gospel of John.’

‘Many of the apocryphal gospels of the second and subsequent centuries are written in ‘worse’ Greek than Mark - that is, worse by the Attic standard.’

‘And finally, in the last extant part of the apocryphal Gospel of Mary, Mary is defended by the disciple Levi, presumably the son of Alphaeus.’

‘For example, what is the position of the apocryphal writings?’

‘The biblical canon originally understood wisdom as being in existence prior to the creation of the world, and the later writers of the apocryphal texts expanded wisdom to include the word and the law.’

‘What many may find to be the most helpful section of each chapter is where the author discusses the ‘Influence’ of each apocryphal book upon the authors of the New Testament.’

‘As I have noted elsewhere, as a literature specialist, I find a distinct difference in quality between the canonical and apocryphal books.’

‘The material in it on Jesus accords with various sources in the Christian popular apocryphal literature, but propounds a distinctive line about Jesus' significance.’

‘He never quoted from the apocryphal books on a single occasion.’

‘There being little or no biblical evidence for any of these claims, the programme focused on apocryphal writings - including a Gospel of Mary Magdalene which turned up in 1945.’

‘Many other apocryphal Jewish and Christian works were in circulation too, not just the famous Gnostic Gospels.’

‘Early Greek manuscripts of the Bible present a series of 14 canticles or ‘odes’ including the Gloria in excelsis and the apocryphal Prayer of Manasseh.’

‘Some are even considered heretical, much like apocryphal books of the Bible.’



Related Forms: 

apocryphally, adverb
apocryphalness, noun



French: 

 apocryphe



77. Antimonie

Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



78. Controversy

 Prolonged public disagreement or heated discussion.



Examples: 

‘the design of the building has caused controversy’

count noun ‘the announcement ended a protracted controversy’

‘He will knowingly enter a mild scuffle of controversy not of his own making.’

‘A storm of controversy continues to rage over changes to bus services in Colchester.’

‘Then the police were subject to a storm of political conflict and controversy.’

‘I have, moreover, sought to alert the reader to key debates and points of controversy.’

‘This ascription has notoriously become a matter of debate and controversy in the modern era.’

‘After a few years of vigorous controversy the second great debate petered out.’

‘There is room for debate and controversy, and there is the stuff of real division.’

‘This line of argument takes us swiftly into huge controversy because it goes to the heart of how we parent.’

‘Within each of these two systems of thought and action there is controversy and argument.’

‘The good thing is that my work continues to raise a lot of controversy and dialogue.’

‘The controversy over the bodies in the mortuary continues, but this time at national level.’

‘It is the latest in a line of complaints about the tip which has been the source of much controversy since it opened.’

‘The application is expected to cause controversy when it is finally submitted.’

‘For a century, they bestrode court and country, privy to the innermost controversy.’

‘This past week has seen more controversy arising from Sunday's live televised match.’

‘There is no reason to think this latest controversy will end any differently.’

‘Scholars come and go and its attribution is a constant source of controversy.’

‘Thanks to recent controversy, this last visit has taken on a greater importance than usual.’

‘The legal controversy has been just one problem attending the couple's wedding plans.’

‘The long-term effects of cannabis on the body are still a matter of controversy.’



Related Forms: 

controversialist, noun
controversial (ˌkɒntrəˈvɜːʃəl), adjective
precontroversy, noun, plural precontroversies.
controversialism, noun
controversially, adverb



French: 

 controverse , polémique 
 son discours a provoqué beaucoup de controverses



79. Parochial

1 Relating to a Church parish.



Examples: 

‘the parochial church council’

‘The return of the chimes holds a special place in the heart of the parochial church council member, who has lived in the village for nearly 30 years.’

‘She was a lively public speaker, a governor of two schools, and a member of Beverley Minster parochial church council.’

‘The vast array of suggestions were also presented to the parochial church council, which will now consider all the options before coming up with a final plan.’

‘A meeting of the parochial church council is to be held on September 17 and the legal move could be made then, or at a later meeting, said Mr Haskins.’

‘David Vowles, a member of the parochial church council building sub committee said he hoped that once work began more interest would be generated.’

‘The parochial church council met this week to discuss the damage and were told it would cost a minimum of £15,000 to repair the windows.’

‘The move is being considered by some leading members of the parochial church council at trouble-torn St James's, Wetherby.’

‘His application to the parochial church council led to an eight-month trial period and since then the clock has only struck on the hour during the night.’

‘The abbey is expecting to run up a deficit of £10,000 this financial year, according to the parochial church council.’

‘The priest-in-charge and parochial church council have made the call.’

‘The cost of acquiring new land to expand had proved prohibitive and the parochial church council had no alternative but to close.’

‘The parochial church council has unanimously rejected plans to move the 11 th Century church.’

‘But to his disappointment, the offer was eventually refused by the parochial church council.’

‘Councillors agreed to defer a decision on the flagpole to find out if the parochial church council was insured for the broken pole.’

‘Each portion in the Plantation was designated a parish in the established church and provision for parochial land was incorporated into the scheme.’

‘Workers are making steady progressing on the new parochial house beside the church in Enniscrone.’

‘All proceeds raised will be divided between church and parochial funds.’

‘Over the past few weeks clergymen and parochial staff have been terrorised by youngsters and church buildings plundered by thieves.’

‘If anyone has a problem about transport they are advised to get in touch with any member of the parish pastoral council or phone the parochial house.’

‘The book mentions many people and works to pray for, but its thrust is not parochial.’



2 Having a limited or narrow outlook or scope.



Examples: 

‘parochial attitudes’

‘their interests are too parochial’

‘Lawyers always have a narrow and parochial interest in expanding the domain of human activity subject to their cartel.’

‘Five hundred years ago, the available tools for enquiry were distinctly limited by parochial geography and religious culture.’

‘Our view of the blogosphere gradually narrows, becoming parochial and staid.’

‘But time has marched on, and we are all that little bit more mature, less parochial in our outlook, than we were back then.’

‘That we could rise above our narrow parochial shells to embrace the larger us?’

‘Grigor believes commissioners, most of whom are based in London, can be parochial in their outlook.’

‘Think of how grey, introverted, small-minded and parochial Scotland can sometimes be.’

‘The real political driving force behind these changes is the widespread realisation that the problems we face are not narrow, parochial problems.’

‘The candidates focused almost entirely on narrow, parochial issues.’

‘These are some of the parochial attitudes that must change.’

‘Americans who have long been criticized for parochial attitudes have grown more interested in the world beyond their borders.’

‘They are parochial in their attitudes, limited in their views and legendary in their stubbornness and resistance to change.’

‘We are sick of the parochial and patrician attitudes of those we elect.’

‘They have to drop their parochial attitude, club together and shape their own futures.’

‘This is not a time for provincial or parochial attitudes; this is a time for us to pull together.’

‘But it sounded very parochial, very small-minded, very irrelevant.’

‘Perhaps there are men or women of secret visionary ability in there, suffocating beneath the weight of mediocre debate and petty parochial feuding.’

‘Western rationality and pride in democracy can seem an intolerable, parochial conceit to those whose lives have been so violently disturbed.’

‘How long should he suffer these perennial indignities that seem part and parcel of involvement with petty politicians and a parochial press?’

‘How can a reader possibly be engaged by such seemingly parochial considerations?’



Related Forms: 

parochialness, noun
semiparochial, adjective
unparochial, adjective
nonparochially, adverb
nonparochial, adjective
parochially, adverb
parochialism, noun
interparochial, adjective
unparochially, adverb
interparochialness, noun
interparochially, adverb
parochiality, noun



French: 

 paroissial
 borné
 attitudes de clocher or bornées



80. Silhouette

1 The dark shape and outline of someone or something visible in restricted light against a brighter background.



Examples: 

‘she paused to see its silhouette against the dimming sky’

‘The design of their silhouettes against the light background with full windows is reminiscent of a Japanese screen.’

‘They dive down deep and look for prey that appear as dark silhouettes against the brighter underside of the ice.’

‘Dark silhouettes lurched crazily in the flickering light, while the pub doors creaked and slammed threatrically in the wind.’

‘Tim was just starting to cross the grounds, the dark silhouette of the school outlined in the moonlight, when a gasping voice whispered in the shadows.’

‘‘You always manage to look beautiful,’ he complimented her, admiring her silhouette in the dim light.’

‘As she looked over towards Erik, Maria could only make out his silhouette in the dim light.’

‘It is in the painting that Sheeler arrived at the flawless balance of shapes, the alternating rhythms of light and dark forms and of silhouettes and delicately modulated surfaces.’

‘A silhouette shadowed the light for a moment, and then a torch bracket in the wall was lit.’

‘I saw some footage of the dark silhouette of New York city: just the outline in the night.’

‘At first sight, it was dark and only faint silhouettes could be seen with the faint light radiating from the doorway.’

‘The fledgling flung himself in, clothes and all, and Arun wished he had brought bait and line as he saw the dark silhouettes of trout duck away into the shadows.’

‘Walls were painted in earth tones, with silhouettes in darker tones of masked dancers in performance.’

‘Flurries of snow drift down gently outside our windows, through which we can just make out the dark silhouettes of the surrounding peaks.’

‘The path wound its way to a summit; the route being marked by a chain of cairns, on the highest of which a trident had been placed so that its silhouette was visible from far below.’

‘The dark silhouette of an imposing dome, still covered with scaffolding, can be seen through a snowstorm.’

‘He anxiously glanced back over his shoulder and saw that the dark silhouettes of countless stumbling figures were pouring into the car park after him.’

‘As I was laying there on the cool grass, looking up at the starlit and crescent moon sky and dark silhouettes of roses, I felt more at peace than I had in awhile.’

‘Tall, leafless trees outlined the pathway, their silhouettes shockingly dark against the snow.’

‘There was a pale light inside and a shadow stood before the light, the silhouette of a child.’

‘The dark silhouettes of palm trees stood out against a deepening magenta sky.’



1.1 A representation of someone or something showing the shape and outline only, typically coloured in solid black.



Examples: 

‘we can always use a silhouette of Father Christmas’

‘These works are positives, so the amphibians are sharp, black silhouettes.’

‘Sugiura often uses the photogram as a paper negative to print a positive, in which the subject becomes a black silhouette.’

‘In one painting enigmatically titled Hoovering, there appears to be a black silhouette of a rabbit.’

‘Among the items on view are paintings, drawings, prints, posters, sculptures, zinc silhouettes and ephemera.’

‘Like Guston, Komarin deploys a set of singular motifs and cartoonish silhouettes that appear frequently in his works.’

‘One subtle touch is a handmade mobile - two wire coat hangers dangling with familiar slam-dunking silhouettes cut from black construction paper.’

‘On the screen was a white silhouette against a black backdrop.’

‘The new trick - the key to the work - is that Periton now underlays each black silhouette with an exact replica made in a dayglo tone of pink, orange, green or red.’

‘She's done so through her now trademark silhouettes, large black paper cut-outs set against stark white walls.’

‘Participants indicate the silhouette that most closely resembles their perceived body shape, and the silhouette which best represents their ideal figure.’

‘Photographers made use of the pandanus to lend striking silhouettes to black and white photographs of Reef twilight.’

‘The method is found in many periods of art from the silhouettes of hands in palaeolithic cave paintings, in Egyptian art, and on Greek vases.’

‘Perhaps because the original inspiration for the silhouettes lies in book-size illustrations, the modest scale suits these works perfectly.’

‘The ad has little black Victorian silhouettes and a pineapple as its logo.’

‘On four large glass sheets, Urquhart has painted in black the silhouettes of a tailor's dummy, a piano, a desk and a garden.’

‘And the t-shirt design is funny: all black silhouettes with one white one.’

‘I opened the closet, and picked out a Hawaiian shirt at random, this one being red with black silhouettes of dragons on it.’

‘The artwork is replete with puns that play on the shapes and silhouettes of individual motifs.’

‘One lady said she decorated cards with black paper silhouettes on CDs.’

‘The focus is certainly on subtlety, with easy simple shapes, and feminine silhouettes forming most of the collection.’



 Cast or show (someone or something) as a dark shape and outline against a brighter background.



Examples: 

‘the castle was silhouetted against the sky’

‘Even though it was dark, the moonlight silhouetted the intricate stone outline of the school.’

‘Before the young man knew what was happening, two of the figures at the alley's entrance fell silently, silhouetting another dark figure with a silver longsword in his or her hand.’

‘He was silhouetted against the outlines of the two empty beds across the room.’

‘Across the dark horizon the moon silhouetted a small town which came into view soon enough.’

‘He squinted against the bright sun that silhouetted the figure of the ship.’

‘The door opened and a figure was silhouetted in the brightness from outside.’

‘He was silhouetted by the bright sky behind him and yet Pen felt as if she had just seen his face.’

‘The figure standing outside in the rain was silhouetted, but it had to be Martin.’

‘In Bryce Canyon in Utah, for example, you would certainly want to concentrate on the shapes of the stone spires by silhouetting them against an open sky or finding patterns in the repeating shapes.’

‘Blinding white light shone into the room, silhouetting a tall figure standing in the doorway, hands blazing with power.’

‘All I could see were glowing puffs in the west: gloriously orange and then mellowing to a yellow and peaking to a pink: all the time silhouetting the city that stretched small in front of it.’

‘Out of our windows west across SoHo there is a gorgeous sunset silhouetting the water towers.’

‘A tiny black dot is silhouetted against the massive bright disc that is the sun, moving slowly across the bottom.’

‘Sheet lightening turned on and off and silhouetted the palm trees for hours.’

‘Before we were halfway across the inlet, heading straight for the town, we noticed a faint pink glow appearing low down in the sky ahead, silhouetting the roofs of Mwanza, and this became brighter and rosier as we watched.’

‘The three of them were silhouetted, one of the adults crouching, the boy standing at his shoulder.’

‘A streak of lightning spiderwebbed across the sky above them, silhouetting Samren's figure against the grey sky that was quickly turning black.’

‘These delicate blossoms are displayed to their best advantage by silhouetting them against a brick wall or a hedge of holly or yew.’

‘Two figures were silhouetted in the entrance, one short and stumpy, the other tall and lithe.’

‘The twisting limbs of oak trees are silhouetted against a darkening sky as a nearly full moon rises in the east.’



 Seen or placed as a silhouette.



Examples: 

‘the old windmill stood out in silhouette against the sky’

‘Connie sashays to the doorway where she stands in silhouette for a long, luxurious moment.’

‘There, standing in silhouette against a backdrop of open sky and sweeping land, stood a man and his dog.’

‘He stood in silhouette in the doorframe, head down, leaning against the side as if exhausted.’

‘And it was beautiful, as you could see all the way to Whitby, crystal clear with no shimmer or haze; the pier and the Abbey were caught in silhouette, so sharply defined that by illusion they appeared quite near.’

‘In these two paintings, the women are depicted impressively in silhouette, just with brownish-black faces without details of eyes, noses and mouths.’

‘In some of the pictures the sun was behind the object being photographed, yet the details of those objects facing the camera, which should have been in silhouette, were clear and well-lit.’

‘In the foreground on the left, Babu has painted a galloping horse in silhouette, a series of four movements which culminate in the animal standing still.’

‘He had his picture taken and reproduced in silhouette for a brochure put out by a contractor he was working for.’

‘Using the giraffe as a starting point, the logo is rendered in silhouette, and the pattern on its hide is used for abstract decoration.’

‘The opening moment, when a dot of light expands to fill the stage and reveal a child's rocking horse in silhouette, is not just fabulous to watch but underlines Quixote's childlike nature and the sense that all life is an illusion.’



Related Forms: 

unsilhouetted, adjective



French: 

 silhouette 
 se découper contre quelque chose
 elle se tenait à laenêtre, sa silhouette se détachant à contre-jour



81. Demographic

 Relating to the structure of populations.



Examples: 

‘the demographic trend is towards an older population’

‘Attitudes towards children were also connected to the changing demographic structure of colonial society.’

‘The demographic trend throughout the western world is towards an aging population.’

‘They point out that the demographic structure of Scotland is changing as we are becoming an aging society.’

‘However, demographic trends will mean less young people in the labour market and more older workers.’

‘A major demographic trend of the aging population is the increasing number of women.’

‘All statistical analyses take into account dietary and demographic factors and tobacco and alcohol habits.’

‘Comparisons are drawn between demographic patterns and career patterns of the two countries.’

‘It has been argued that nineteenth-century demographic change had more to do with fertility than mortality.’

‘He then selects individuals to interview, using demographic criteria.’

‘The country's economic and demographic base is too narrow to sustain a good higher education system.’

‘The growth can be explained by demographic growth, he said, and not by efforts of the university.’

‘Table 1 shows demographic details for families according to screening group.’

‘Table 3 shows the prevalence of drug resistance according to selected demographic factors.’

‘Those social and demographic factors may be key contributors to potential crises in the future.’

‘However there is one area in which we can make forecasts with some confidence: that of demographic change.’

‘There were no significant demographic differences between the screened and unscreened patients.’

‘Most of India's economic growth over the years was occasioned by, and spent on, demographic growth.’

‘Table 2 shows the clinical and demographic characteristics of the two groups.’

‘At the other end of life, projections that we can expect to live longer have become a focus for demographic anxieties.’

‘Both Canada and Japan have experienced profound demographic changes over the postwar period.’



 A particular sector of a population.



Examples: 

‘the drink is popular with a young demographic’

‘Audiences are improving again and the demographic is substantially younger than it once was.’

‘All of this places me squarely in the demographic of People Who Tend To Buy Things Online.’

‘Pseudo science-fiction movies aimed at the teen demographic can be the perfect way to start a morning.’

‘What's more, the gaming demographic is getting older, with almost a quarter of all gamers over the age of 40.’

‘Fill in any form, answer any telephone call, and soon you too will become part of a carefully-mapped demographic.’

‘It's mildly interesting that none of the main characters in the format fall into the demographic at which the show is targeted.’

‘It speaks volumes for the career opportunities of video artists that the demographic here is so narrow.’

‘Clearly she doesn't know the demographic that she's meant to be appealing to.’

‘The demographic of Irish business is such that it is made up of a large number of small and medium sized enterprises.’

‘Once something is published and put out, it's available for anyone to buy no matter who the intended demographic is.’

‘This time though he's marketing his ideas at a different demographic.’

‘I mean, Friday evenings aren't the time to capture the college demographic.’

‘Naturally, they're the demographic most apt to be in the market for a new home or car.’

‘I have wondered what the prime demographic for this type of game would be since it has sold so many copies.’

‘The way people drive in the future will also be transformed by a shift in the driver demographic.’

‘Their aim is for other newspapers with a different demographic to pick up the story.’

‘The demographic and gender balance of the participants was seen by some as not reflecting the community.’

‘The Olympics is hands down the most popular sporting event among every demographic.’

‘It is clear we are appealing to a broader demographic and therefore will want to offer customer a choice in the future.’

‘Is that demographic truly representational of the needs and values of the country as a whole?’



Related Forms: 

demographically, adverb
demographical, adjective



French: 

 démographique



82. Tip_One’S_Hand

Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



83. Inadvertently

 Without intention; accidentally.



Examples: 

‘his name had been inadvertently omitted from the list’

‘Many if not most of the arsonists appeared to have started big fires inadvertently with small fires.’

‘Sadly, we tried to usher the creature out the window, but ended up hitting it inadvertently.’

‘In trying to get something he had inadvertently given something away.’

‘A monarchy which strives to avoid political controversy now finds itself inadvertently at the heart of it.’

‘To avoid being billed twice inadvertently, don't press any button more than once.’



Related Forms: 

Outed by a fellow Duke student, Knox inadvertently became a pronounced public figure when she spoke up for herself.
inadvertently, adverb



French: 

 par mégarde or inadvertance



84. Comprehensive

1 Including or dealing with all or nearly all elements or aspects of something.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive list of sources’

‘From a comprehensive list of nearly 1,600 daily newspapers, 500 newspapers were selected using standard interval sampling.’

‘The Guide contains a comprehensive list of businesses and services in the town and contains a very useful street map of Ballinrobe.’

‘Its Explore Kodiak guide has a comprehensive list of outfitters and free activities.’

‘More and more colleges and universities are developing comprehensive diversity plans to guide changes in campus policies and procedures.’

‘Currently the only possible source for a comprehensive list of travellers, as we've already established, lies in the carriers' passenger lists.’

‘The training videos contain comprehensive information on all aspects of good environmental practice at farm level, presented in an interesting and stimulating manner.’

‘It called for constituting a committee to conduct a comprehensive review of all aspects of the party's performance and make recommendations for future plan of action.’

‘That was one element within a comprehensive report.’

‘Both states signed their treaties claiming they were elements of a comprehensive peace.’

‘Though a large volume of literature is available on the issues discussed in the book it is a comprehensive treatise on related aspects of food and nutrition and the editors have taken pain to deal with every aspect.’

‘This comprehensive volume of nearly 600 poems, many accompanied by the Spanish original, bursts with evocative images.’

‘This will include the development of a comprehensive manual for all aspects of driver licencing including that of driving schools and instructors.’

‘The entire nightmare could have been avoided had he kept comprehensive documentation of his dealings with the plaintiffs.’

‘But these are unavoidable aspects of a comprehensive exposition of any subject.’

‘I thought he was fairly comprehensive in his coverage of various issues.’

‘The documentary shows its age, but it provides a fairly comprehensive overview of the legendary director.’

‘Seeing the problems his students faced, Mr. Silman has created the first comprehensive strategic guide in dictionary form.’

‘The result is the first comprehensive analysis of preventable patient deaths linked to infections within 5,810 hospitals nationally.’

‘Some sites offer links to others and through such links a reasonably comprehensive list can be obtained.’

‘Take a peek at our comprehensive guide to dining out in the city.’



1.1 Of large content or scope; wide-ranging.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive collection of photographs’

‘Its thorough research and comprehensive scope should prove invaluable for anyone seriously interested in the subject.’

‘The design phase is comprehensive in scope, tackling everything from content and design to functionality and user interface.’

‘The Senate Inquiry into mandatory sentencing was broad-ranging, thorough and comprehensive in terms of scope and evidence.’

‘This is a wide ranging and comprehensive survey of children and the experience of childhood.’

‘Making broad scope, comprehensive documentaries about an event the magnitude of World War II is a tall order, often with less than satisfactory results.’

‘Because it is comprehensive in scope and specific in detail, it can eliminate the ambiguities that exist in most partnerships.’

‘The volume does not cover all issues in detail and it was not intended to be comprehensive in scope.’

‘Sir Gawaine's British West Indies collection is part of a wider comprehensive collection of stamps from Great Britain and the British Empire.’

‘The authors make no claims for completeness, indeed are transparent about the gaps, yet this book is impressively comprehensive in scale, scope and analytical range.’

‘Yet, inevitably, the comprehensive scope of Ackroyd's book requires that he sometimes sacrifice elaboration for example, depth for breadth.’

‘Naval historians would do well to familiarize themselves with his style of narrative, his comprehensive coverage, and scope of research.’

‘Unbelievable in its comprehensive scope, the vast material supports a view of Africa as the archetypal artistic environment.’

‘Although debate on the measure was fairly abbreviated, the resulting measure was comprehensive in both its scope and design.’

‘Their collaborative research is quite comprehensive in its scope.’

‘It combines a comprehensive scope, concisely written entries and the best in current biblical scholarship.’

‘The Convention is extraordinarily comprehensive in scope.’

‘This presentation is comprehensive in scope but lacks much historical analysis.’

‘The Guardian's more comprehensive survey also came up with far higher job losses than the government admits.’

‘Their collaborative research is quite comprehensive in its scope.’

‘The volume does not cover all issues in detail and it was not intended to be comprehensive in scope.’



1.2 (of a victory or defeat) achieved or suffered by a large margin.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive victory for Swansea’

‘Almost immediately afterwards, the Under-17s cemented victory in their own league with a comprehensive defeat of visitors Sandbach.’

‘However, this was a very comprehensive victory, a complete team performance.’

‘Brookes added the goal to complete a comprehensive victory for Albion.’

‘With his opponent looking tired, Khan took full advantage landing plenty of powerful shots to secure a comprehensive victory.’

‘But Cameron could not argue that Thursday's decisive victory was comprehensive, because his forward march appears to have ground to a halt at the northern boundaries of Middle England.’

‘After their comprehensive defeat at Scarborough last Saturday, York will be looking to get their Oxbridge ECB Yorkshire Premier League programme back on the rails this weekend.’

‘The Oxford Kings' defense struggled through the first five innings of Sunday's game against the Cambridge Monarchs, allowing the Tabs to take eight runs on the way to a comprehensive victory.’

‘Selby Warriors also won their first game in PN division five, albeit by only a single point, and they will be looking for a more comprehensive victory on Saturday as they visit the hapless Panthers.’

‘Deputy head teacher Patrick Earnshaw, who witnessed the school's comprehensive victory at Kendal Town Hall on Thursday night, said he was extremely proud of his students.’

‘Gloucester were a distant second-best as 12,500 Munster fans roared their side on to a comprehensive victory which gives them an away quarter-final in April.’

‘The last thing they need now is this afternoon's game at Leeds, who will be desperate to recover from the disappointment of Wednesday's comprehensive defeat by Real Madrid.’

‘Last October's comprehensive defeats by the Irish at both senior and under-21 levels on their own soil shows Kelly that the opposition has stepped up a gear.’

‘Hamed, back for the first time since his comprehensive defeat to Marco Antonio Barrera in Las Vegas, looked sluggish and occasionally even disinterested.’

‘Three minutes after Hartson made it three, Petrov made it four and what was looking like a comprehensive victory started heading inexorably towards a humiliation.’

‘Oxford UCCE women's cricket team began this season as they finished the last - with a comprehensive victory over their Cambridge rivals.’

‘Their comprehensive defeat was confounded even further yesterday when they visited Yorkshire Academy in the League Cup quarter-finals.’

‘Salford's comprehensive victory laid down a significant marker ahead of the play-offs and will have created considerable doubt in Leigh minds.’

‘Cork's attack was toothless that day and, in a game that was stuffy for long enough, Tipperary's eight-point victory was comprehensive.’

‘Richmond continued their domination in both league and cup with a comprehensive victory over Dorking in the Surrey Cup quarter-finals.’

‘Blue is the colour in North Yorkshire today after the Conservative Party swept to a comprehensive victory in the county council elections.’



1.3 (of motor-vehicle insurance) providing cover for most risks, including damage to the policyholder's own vehicle.



Examples: 

‘Some cost items will differ for different vehicle types, notably comprehensive insurance, but in the main it is reasonable to use fleet size.’

‘Is it possible to take out one insurance policy, preferably comprehensive, that would cover us all to drive either of the cars?’

‘The good news for motorists with fully comprehensive insurance is that they are covered if their car has water damage.’

‘He agreed only after ensuring that he was covered under the defendant's comprehensive car insurance policy.’

‘For example, a 56-year-old driving a 2001 Toyota Avensis received a quote of €735 from Axa for comprehensive insurance.’

‘He thought that all drivers should be made to have fully comprehensive insurance and that driving jobs should be given to local people.’

‘This insurance is designed to protect motorists from payout shortfalls that could arise between the original price paid for a car and the comprehensive insurance payout in the case of loss.’

‘It must be comprehensive insurance, because you're driving someone else's car.’

‘If you happen to own a posh motor, or are particularly accident-prone, then you might consider taking out fully comprehensive insurance.’

‘Motorists with fully comprehensive insurance mistakenly think they have insurance for the contents of their car along with the car itself.’

‘Even those who have fully comprehensive motor insurance while driving in the UK need to check, as most policies only offer third-party cover on the continent.’

‘The cost of comprehensive motor insurance has almost doubled, rising by 86%.’

‘A typical comprehensive and collision policy will usually only cover the fair market value for your car.’



2 Relating to or denoting a system of secondary education in which children of all abilities from a particular area are educated in one school.



Examples: 

‘a comprehensive school’

‘It is important that all schools see themselves, and are seen, as part of a comprehensive system of secondary education.’

‘The comprehensive education system was last night seized upon as a key factor in reducing the chances of Scots born between 1967 and 1976 bettering themselves.’

‘Is the comprehensive education system to blame for making these teachers' jobs practically impossible?’

‘The whole point of a comprehensive education system is to encourage the best and brightest pupils not merely to educate those with rich parents who went to private schools.’

‘Before the comprehensive state education systems were established, there had been some local control of schools and some local funds raised for them.’

‘Mike says the play, which criticises the values that prevail in the comprehensive school education system, is ideal for young performers.’

‘New Zealand has a fully comprehensive education system.’

‘Historically, comprehensive secondary education in mixed-ability schools was first introduced by Labour.’

‘Northern Ireland still uses the selective grammar school system that was largely replaced by comprehensive education in Britain in the 1970s.’

‘League tables have led to a systematic attack on comprehensive education.’

‘For her, as for much of the Scottish educational establishment, the comprehensive system is sacrosanct.’

‘The expansion of higher education has been on the back of comprehensive education.’

‘She supports comprehensive education and opposes selection.’

‘I don't believe we'd have the made the progress we have with girls' education without comprehensive education.’

‘We have given long-standing support to comprehensive education and we stand by that.’

‘Supporters of the comprehensive system pointed to the figures as evidence that selective education in the state sector was unnecessary.’

‘Because of the spread of comprehensive education from the mid-1960s, by 1990 only about 7 per cent of local authorities had retained grammar schools.’

‘Catholic students entered University as never before, and were further aided by the introduction of comprehensive education.’

‘He introduced comprehensive education, women's emancipation legislation, and reforms in higher education.’

‘I have fought for comprehensive education all my life, including during the 20 years I have been at Kingsland.’



3 Relating to understanding.



Examples: 

 A comprehensive school.



Examples: 

‘he trained as an accountant after leaving the local comprehensive’

‘when I was 14 I was at comprehensive’

‘About 12,000 pupils went on to study at the same 400 selective grammar schools or top-rated comprehensives.’

‘The majority of these producers did not attend fee-paying schools; more went to grammar schools or comprehensives.’

‘City academies - independent comprehensives part-funded by the private sector - and specialist schools will not be introduced north of the Border.’

‘The snuffing out of that option, by the ideologically driven determination to replace grammar schools with comprehensives, was a quite explicit piece of social engineering.’

‘All but one of the top 26 state schools nationally were comprehensives.’

‘Some of us were going to private schools or comprehensives, so we didn't have to take it.’

‘In England they have been transforming failed comprehensives into specialist schools and city academies.’

‘We do not argue that public comprehensives jettison their professional and technical programs.’

‘‘There is no point at which grammar schools exceed the performance of comprehensives at teaching able pupils,’ he said at the time.’

‘In the latest set of school league tables, comprehensives are getting results as good as or higher than grammar schools in the ‘value added’ part of the table.’

‘As today's exclusive survey shows, a massive gulf separates Bradford's highest-flying comprehensives from those with lower scores.’

‘People power has forced councillors to rethink plans to change school catchment areas and bar scores of pupils from their local comprehensives.’

‘About half went to fee-paying schools and the rest to state grammars and comprehensives.’

‘A Guardian leak suggests that one of the most scandalous proposals, letting ‘public’ schools take over comprehensives, may be restricted to London.’

‘Plans to rebuild two other comprehensives - Beckfoot and Grange Technology College - plus new special schools will be included in a ‘second wave’ bid to be put in over the next few weeks.’

‘We should be defending mixed local comprehensives.’

‘Laidlaw has given assurances that his schools would remain comprehensives and would take everyone from the catchment area.’

‘More recently, he has declared opposition to comprehensives and support for the return of grammar schools.’

‘More than one in five teachers who taught some maths in comprehensives had nothing better than an A-Level in the subject, and the proportion fell to just over half in the case of RE.’

‘Instead, many went to council-run comprehensives and attended newer universities or none.’



Related Forms: 

precomprehensive, adjective
uncomprehensive, adjective
precomprehensiveness, noun
noncomprehensively, adverb
uncomprehensively, adverb
comprehensiveness, noun
precomprehensively, adverb
quasi-comprehensive, adjective
quasi-comprehensively, adverb
uncomprehensiveness, noun
noncomprehensive, adjective
noncomprehensiveness, noun
comprehensively, adverb



French: 

 complet, exhaustif
 détaillé, complet
 connaissances vastes or étendues
 mesures d'ensemble
 une assurance tous risques
 les écoles ont abandonné les critères sélectifs d'entrée



85. Metric

1 Relating to or based on the metre as a unit of length.



Examples: 

‘all measurements are given in metric form’

‘Each color has its own wavelength, from dark red, which has the longest wavelength, to violet, which has the shortest wavelength, expressed in metric units of length.’

‘Most metric recipes were based on a weight unit of 25 grams - slightly less than an ounce - and a liquid measure of half a litre, which was slightly less than a pint.’

‘This system contains most of the metric units you are used to, like meters and kilograms, but also includes units for many other physical and engineering properties.’

‘All this really means is that you are not using metric units.’

‘Most students will more immediately comprehend data given in the text because of the use of English rather than metric units.’

‘A button can also convert a number between Imperial and metric units, or look up a word in the dictionary, or fetch data from a database or Web site.’

‘Further, the news that the kilo is in such imminent danger of extinction will no doubt be seen as a vindication by Brits reluctant to sell their fruit and veg in metric units.’

‘In the United States, the engineers work in imperial units, while in the rest of the world, metric units are primarily used.’

‘Our modern metric units, like the gram or the centimetre, originate from their handy description of everyday quantities.’

‘He used the pyramids as support for a totally barmy argument against metric units.’

‘This is a rare case of a social scientific measure that has become so well known that the measure and the concept are almost as synonymous as temperature and the centigrade or Fahrenheit scales, or as length and the metric scale.’

‘Water was used as the basis for establishing the metric unit of mass, however, so it is easier to remember that a cubic centimeter of it has a mass of 1 gm.’

‘Give weights, measurements, and medication dosages in metric units and temperatures in both Fahrenheit and Celsius degrees.’

‘But metric units needed paper for calculations and hence they were not related to everyday life.’

‘The road is measured in miles, or in these EU directed metric times, kilometres and the journey in hours and minutes.’

‘The first mission, Mars Climate Orbiter, didn't stop fast enough and crashed into Mars because engineers didn't convert between metric and imperial units properly.’

‘The metric version of these numbers is 26.5 liters per kilogram of beans’

‘Our products are offered both in inch and metric sizes.’

‘The tool accepts both inch and metric data, and computes parameters such as torque.’

‘The minister said the review will be part of a planned changeover to metric speed limit signage, from MPH to kilometers per hour.’



1.1 Relating to or using the metric system.



Examples: 

‘we should have gone metric years ago’



2 Relating to or denoting a metric.



Examples: 

‘the metric equation of Minkowski space–time’

‘Progress was being made in that gravitation was described for the first time by the metric tensor but still the theory was not right.’

‘The relationship is precisely specified by the most profound equation of STR, usually called the metric equation (or line metric equation).’

‘Isoperi metric problems have been a source of important mathematical ideas and techniques since classical antiquity.’

‘It is possible to prove the above result without using metric properties (merely using order axioms), but it is not possible to drop the order axioms themselves.’

‘He also conformed, perhaps more happily, to the decisions regarding the metric division of angles into 100 subdivisions.’



1 A system or standard of measurement.



Examples: 

‘the levels of branching are arbitrary and no precise metric is applied to distance between the nodes’

‘This means that worst-case measurements of system metrics are the only thing that matters to a hard real-time application, because these are the cases that cause a missed deadline.’

‘That loss can be measured using standard metrics of compensating variation, equivalent variation, or consumer surplus using national demand functions.’

‘The two standard metrics for information retrieval are relevance and retrieval, i.e. what percentage of all the good stuff you get back.’

‘If the metric does not meet standards, it might indicate a problem with training, or it might signal a significant problem that will affect the wing's performance.’

‘The metric should also measure the degree to which the compliance system adopted by a company is effective beyond merely the regulatory requirements specific to FDA.’



1.1 (in business) a set of figures or statistics that measure results.



Examples: 

‘Substituting low-quality performance metrics for value metrics represents a step in the wrong direction.’

‘We see an up tick in the metrics we use to evaluate the amount of potential business in our pipeline.’

‘Finally, abandoning value metrics is akin to throwing the baby out with the bathwater.’

‘Embracing value-based metrics fully means taking the time to adjust their inner workings to fit your company's needs.’

‘Few managers, it's safe to say, spent much time thinking about metrics or best practices.’

‘Another hospital chain honing its use of metrics is New Delhi-based Fortis.’

‘These are the types of metrics clients will demand.’

‘You provide that evidence by going through the metrics of the sales process.’

‘No doubt, the combination of money and smart metrics is tough to beat.’

‘But taking the sector as a whole, performance on all of the key metrics has been dire.’

‘It's one of the great metrics of a successful business.’

‘The review also shows that in most cases the growth in these metrics far exceeds the growth in their loan books.’



1.2 A binary function of a topological space which gives, for any two points of the space, a value equal to the distance between them, or to a value treated as analogous to distance for the purpose of analysis.



Examples: 

with modifier ‘the external structure of space–time is described by the Schwarzschild metric’

‘A Banach space is a real or complex normed vector space that is complete as a metric space under the metric induced by the norm.’

‘Weyl opened the way to the conformal differential geometry of Riemannian spaces in which one studies the properties of the spaces invariant under the so-called conformal transformation of the Riemannian metric.’

‘We conclude that a trend analysis of median comet metrics from repeated experiments at different stress levels is certainly an efficient way to statistically demonstrate a genotoxic effect.’

‘The Robertson-Walker metric which Walker mentions in this quotation arose from joint work which he did with his colleague H P Robertson in the late 1930s.’

‘On page three of this text (the first full page after the preface) the Schwarzchild metric is written down.’



2 The metric system.



Examples: 

‘it's easier to work in metric’

‘They use metric here in Japan, though, so ‘centimeters towards meaningful democracy’ would be more correct, but in reality the change is closer to micrometric.’

‘I found myself constantly doing the mental trick I did in Austraila, where in my head, I pre-scan every word I am about to say, looking for any mentions of numerical data that would have to be converted to metric.’

‘Like the inhabitants of small villages in Surrey, I don't do metric.’

‘However, a spokesman for the Department for Transport said: ‘The derogation says we will go to metric when we choose a date.’’

‘The only sensible solution is to complete the changeover to metric, and as swiftly and cleanly as possible.’

‘And in line with already-announced changes, road signs displaying limits in miles-per-hour will go metric nationwide within the next 12 months.’

‘We are not against metric, but against the enforcement of it in this country.’

‘Burt took a deep breath and launched into a lengthy explanation of the technicalities of the game, which seems to involve yards and other things I thought the EU made illegal when we all went metric.’

‘As Evening Press correspondents continue to mull over metric's efficiencies and deficiencies, we decided to look back at how the paper had covered the changeover from imperial in the Seventies.’

‘In or about July, 2005, you're going to go metric.’

‘Oh, I never learned metric… what's that in inches?’

‘He was also president of the York Chamber of Trade and as far back as the 1940s was keen to see Britain going metric, as he felt it would help the country in all ways in the long-term.’

‘But for most people, metric is just an irritation which they overcome.’

‘You try to think how much fabric you will need, translating shapes into metres, or in my case, yards which I then convert to metric.’

‘There was one when Stella compared the initial feeling of losing her memory to what it was like to live in Canada around the time that it suddenly switched to metric.’

‘I've yet to find one customer to ask for anything in metric, and you can ask any customer I serve and I do serve a lot of customers.’

‘No change in speeding: The new signs to control speed in metric has had little effect on the traffic passing through the town centre.’

‘This increase may partly be due to the changeover to metric.’

‘Earlier this year, the Repubic of Ireland successfully converted its signs to metric without any significant problems.’

‘Do you remember what happened as soon as we went metric?’



 Relating to or composed in a poetic metre.



Examples: 

‘the public recitation of metric, rhyming verse’

‘Humor raises no such difficulty, for it is a purely formal device, more akin to the metric pattern of verse than to that of a trope.’

‘I opted for freedom, though on many occasions continuing to use familiar metric forms, but rejuvenated within the iridescent world of metaphor.’

‘Also painfully absent is any discussion of the poetry, of the metric and formal characteristics of these texts, their historic or social changes, or their regional idiosyncrasies.’

‘In a previous lesson, Flint introduced the concept of metric feet (rhythmic modes), since she knew Nadan was studying poetry.’

‘He was interested in sonority, metric freedom, and rhythmic force.’

‘All metric translations strictly follow the original Sanskrit verse format.’

‘There's something tired about sample-based music which still holds everything together with a metric beat, especially a generic ‘hip hop’ beat.’



 The metre of a poem.



Examples: 

‘Here, as in Harper's later volumes, musical rhythm replaces traditional metrics in the poetry without sacrificing craft.’

‘This feature was reflected in the development of Anglo-Irish metrics and was first felt through the rhythms of folksongs.’

‘What Pound did in this text was to construct a Well-Tempered Prosody to exercise his mastery of metrics and diction.’

‘Wyatt has left us poems whose ‘flexibility and intricacy’ arises from their adherence to music rather than metrics, and Bunting seized on them as a means to invigorate his own lines.’

‘So the initial fourteen verses of To Saxham make plain when one considers them in light of more than metrics.’

‘Hopkins and Whitman appropriately shared a metric that suited their commitment to the natural.’

‘But in any century, syllabic romance metrics engage the ear while Latin quantitative metrics engage the mind.’

‘Justice's most obvious technical accomplishments involved not metrics but stanzaic forms and repetition.’

‘The need for flexibility also interferes with simple metrics.’



Related Forms: 

a combining form occurring in adjectives that correspond to nouns ending in -meter (barometric) or -metry (geometric).



French: 

 métrique
 adopter le système métrique
 50 kilogrammes  mpl
 tonne 



86. Overarching

 Comprehensive or all-embracing.



Examples: 

‘a single overarching principle’

‘The overarching aim of the National Archives policies is to improve public access to archives.’

‘United Future contends that the foundations of this bill are rooted in the overarching principle of national security.’

‘It is also highly selective, highlighting a few overarching issues with wide biological impact or interest for the non-specialist, noting important trends and interpreting their significance.’

‘In effect, nationalism provided a strong overarching bond of identity to set against and ameliorate class divisions.’

‘I'm interested in what you see as the overarching artistic principle here.’

‘While it is imperative to have an overarching policy framework that comprehends the fundamental factors shaping our world, in practice, foreign policy typically is local.’

‘However, the overarching principle is that of conscientious objection, rather than the risk of participating in unlawful acts.’

‘However, its main strength is its potential to provide an overarching political framework that will enable a wide range of goals to become achievable.’

‘At present, most democratic civil law countries tend to uphold the doctrine of strict legality as an overarching principle.’

‘The overarching principle at work is that everyone contributes to the common need.’

‘The overarching objective of the review is to complement the work of the current investigation team by assessing progress to date.’

‘The United Nations has an overarching responsibility for refugee matters.’

‘Pedagogical freedom is not an absolute; it is instrumental and subservient to the university's overarching interest in promoting free inquiry and debate.’

‘It seems to me to be totally inappropriate for one department to be able to have that sort of overarching control of that wider area.’

‘While not everyone agrees on what should or should not be included in open access publishing, an overarching feature is that there should be universal access to all scientific knowledge.’

‘There is one overarching positive message for developing countries from the genome project.’

‘From an overarching historical perspective, Scots and Scotland have been for several hundred years at the forefront of medical, educational, technological and philanthropic innovation.’

‘And once the band start to realise that the Foum is theirs for the taking, there's no stopping the emotional exuberance overriding the technical side and becoming the overarching feature of the night.’

‘The overarching theme of the manifesto is that Britain is heading in the wrong direction.’

‘In place of an overarching framework - the web that connects humanity together - historians are encouraged to focus their inquiry on the local and particular.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



87. Explicit

1 Stated clearly and in detail, leaving no room for confusion or doubt.



Examples: 

‘the arrangement had not been made explicit’

‘To ensure consistency, several definitions were made explicit before data entry began.’

‘The methodologies employed are not only made explicit, but discussed in some detail, albeit at times anecdotally.’

‘At least one has even made explicit reference to the use of nuclear bombs, albeit as a retaliatory measure.’

‘A narrative is implied, but never made explicit.’

‘Although his condition is never made explicit, the Swindon teenager shows all the signs of having Asperger's.’

‘It is not to my present purpose to consider how such an explicit definition of the notion of a sense-datum might be formulated.’

‘It's clearly an explicit miscarriage of justice, and I'm glad to see that these young guys are being free.’

‘Others make more explicit the objectives to which the government should devote itself.’

‘During the initial days after the diagnosis, your patient or the parents may need very explicit instructions.’

‘The ransom note is very explicit on what he's going to do.’

‘I have explicit instructions not to share that with you right now.’

‘A number of instructional texts make explicit reference to the difficulties of learning Thai.’

‘In 2003 the Justice Minister gave his explicit consent for the adoption of 595 children.’

‘You may use my personal information - but only with my explicit permission.’

‘The contract with the writer is very explicit, he explains.’

‘The area of this part can be found once we have an explicit description of its graph.’

‘Plekhanov's program did not represent an explicit disavowal of socialist objectives.’

‘Assumptions are explicit statements describing the present and future environment.’

‘In this section, we describe these forms of explicit prejudice.’

‘Taking examples from actual primary care practice, Launer presents the techniques in a clear, explicit fashion.’



1.1 (of a person) stating something in an explicit manner.



Examples: 

‘let me be explicit’

‘He was not explicit but implied to me that most of the people were in some way connected with publishing or writing.’

‘We were quite explicit in the consultation process that this would be one of the savings that would be made.’

‘People fall in love all the time, but few professional athletes are so explicit in recounting the moment they met their soulmate 15 years earlier.’

‘From the start, he was explicit about his modus operandi: We were to give him our program, and he would give us a design.’

‘It would have helped had he been more explicit on this point.’

‘His former colleagues were explicit in their condemnation.’

‘Can you be explicit about whether you think a pull out of Australian troops would be a substantial damaging of the alliance?’

‘It is important that scientists are explicit about the limitations of their work.’

‘However, he was not explicit as to when and how a civil dictatorship could replace a military government and eventually be replaced by a democratic system.’

‘The Spanish-dominant families were explicit about their concerns.’

‘Fortunately, Alexander is more explicit elsewhere in his writings.’

‘At the end of the book Toussaint moves toward post-development discourse, although he is not explicit about it.’

‘The officials were very explicit at the select committee.’

‘Henry was explicit about this in one of only two articles he published on decorative art while he was in Sydney.’

‘If they were not explicit, it would certainly have been implied.’

‘If you are explicit in the comment section of your order, I've found that they are pretty good.’

‘Once we are explicit in the legislation, we can move away from that general reference to the principles of the treaty.’

‘Now she was very explicit as to what her first choice still was, it was still revenge.’

‘In fact, the Court is quite explicit on this point.’

‘I think they've been very explicit about this for months.’



1.2 Describing or representing sexual activity in a graphic fashion.



Examples: 

‘a sexually explicit blockbuster’

‘They said they just felt that the explicit depiction of sexual activity and nudity was unacceptable.’

‘I'd put an even more explicit photo on, except I'd have to put an Agecheck on my site!’

‘He also described ‘a gay sexual encounter in explicit and derogatory terms’ from the pulpit.’

‘Testimony also included description of explicit photographs that include the defendant in them.’

‘The site includes explicit photography and detailed descriptions of sex acts.’

‘There are often legal and other obstacles to using highly explicit videos in assessing sex offenders.’

‘Pimping, hookers, all sexual acts and explicit language has been censored in the Australian version.’

‘The explicit references to sexual perversions are not the best thing about the book, although they don't really do it much harm.’

‘Her explicit accounts of her sexual journey developed into this fictionalised memoir.’

‘The board objected to explicit scenes depicting sexual relations between a 15-year-old girl and an adult man.’

‘This is erotic fiction complete with explicit language and sexual content.’

‘There's no other way to describe him without using explicit language.’

‘Any readers who are easily offended or who simply dislike explicit descriptions of sex should avoid this novel.’

‘It was a very explicit, very descriptive story with a sex scene between Tristan and Ian.’

‘He only read it because he heard there were some very explicit sexual situations in it.’

‘The trilogy also introduced a far more explicit approach to the sexual nature of the vampire.’

‘Do librarians have a right to a workplace reasonably free of sexually explicit materials?’

‘The director's cut features a few fairly explicit scenes that didn't make it to U.S. theaters.’

‘Do you think things have become too explicit today and thus less erotic?’

‘Have today's films become too explicit in dealing with sex?’



 The closing words of a manuscript, early printed book, or chanted liturgical text.



Examples: 

Related Forms: 

unexplicitly, adverb
explicitly, adverb
superexplicit, adjective
quasi-explicit, adjective
unexplicit, adjective
overexplicit, adjective
explicitness, noun
quasi-explicitly, adverb
superexplicitly, adverb



French: 

 explicite
 le sexe et la violence montrés ouvertement à la télévision
 cru



88. Wistful

 Having or showing a feeling of vague or regretful longing.



Examples: 

‘a wistful smile’

‘Clarke has responded to his critics with a dollop of wistful regret, followed by an adamant refusal to back down.’

‘The look on his face is, by now, nearly wistful; the smile almost bittersweet.’

‘If you ask about her previous boyfriend and she gets a small, wistful smile on her face, change the subject.’

‘I could see him going back in time and a small, wistful smile curled up on his lips.’

‘Christian's eyebrows rose good-naturedly and his bow shaped mouth formed a wistful smile.’

‘He held in a wistful sigh and smiled warmly when her eyes flicked up in the mirror, meeting his.’

‘Gregory felt a chill run up his spine at the wistful, dreamy tone of her voice.’

‘She chuckled lightly and exhaled a sigh caught somewhere in between wistful and dreamy.’

‘There was a wistful, daydreaming quality to Pete's voice that lulled me almost to sleep as we rode.’

‘What distinguishes Harcourt from his contemporaries is the way he laces his stories with wistful charm and surreal humour.’

‘All four wistful and melodic tracks document yearning and loss with an almost angelic intervention.’

‘Tin became wistful and in a surge of nostalgia offered to show me round.’

‘Director Bob Baker seems to have an innate understanding of the Coward paradox, that wistful vitriol.’

‘Hanging in the heart of Edinburgh, Constable's vision of Dedham Vale is a wistful window on to the very soul of rural England.’

‘The entire point of this post wasn't to engage in wistful remembrances.’

‘It has a wistful quality, a longing for a world gone never to return, which an author of Sampson's vintage can and should be excused.’

‘This part of the song comes out as something of a wistful ballad, but more interesting than most.’

‘They ran through emotions from funny, romantic and sad, to witty, wistful and thought-provoking.’

‘As I scraped applesauce and cream of eel from countless plates I felt wistful.’

‘And so, against all the odds, and all the elements, Powell got to make his wistful and impassioned film.’



Related Forms: 

wistfully, adverb
wistfulness, noun
unwistfulness, noun
unwistfully, adverb
unwistful, adjective



French: 

 mélancolique, nostalgique



89. Implicit

1 Suggested though not directly expressed.



Examples: 

‘comments seen as implicit criticism of the policies’

‘Resource limitation is an implicit assumption of any competition hypothesis and should be tested.’

‘He conceded that such an inference would be only implicit.’

‘They may also be curtailed, with the explanation left implicit.’

‘The process of learning to read seems to involve both explicit and implicit learning.’

‘And it is that implicit possibility that gives depth to humor.’

‘Why, it even carries the implicit endorsement of the US Secretary of State.’

‘The attention on young middle class protestors was far less direct but often implicit.’

‘Expanding debate and liberating speech is at least implicit in the mandate of any university governing body.’

‘As subtle as implicit attitudes are, they can cause serious real-world damage.’

‘It has always been implicit in television that the programs are just delivery vehicles for the advertising.’

‘The tradeoff I have described has always been implicit in the law, but it now may become explicit.’

‘The implicit social connections that blog linking imply are public: they are there for anyone to see, and the individuals involved actively create those links with that in mind.’

‘The implicit message is always the same: it is your capitalist (imperialist, racist, whatever) society that is the true enemy of the people.’

‘The implicit presumption was always that politicised corrections for market failures would work perfectly.’

‘Her earlier work exploited the tensions of flatness in paintings of punctures, protrusions and simple forms whose symbolic possibilities were always implicit.’

‘It seems to me that they were fundamentally asking why we need to have 100 pages of legislation that set out how a Crown entity must report when it has always been implicit that that agency must report anyway.’

‘It always maintains an implicit threat of violence.’

‘There is an implicit question as to whether perfections are coherent such that they can exist in one person.’

‘The official focus on the ageing question, with the implicit notion that people have a responsibility to reproduce a new generation of elder-carers, contributes to the instrumental view of parenthood.’

‘The implicit question is whether this move can prod uncabled Australians out of their pay TV inertia and get subscription television's hoof in the door of more homes.’



2 Always to be found in; essentially connected with.



Examples: 

‘the values implicit in the school ethos’

‘In any case, whether or not our present lethal lack of cohesion can be attributed to the rise of multiculturalism, the moral relativism implicit in that view always made it a dubious position to hold.’

‘This would also provide tremendous fodder for analysis of the social networks implicit in links.’

‘This view is so fundamentally flawed yet so implicit in the Australian mentality that it seems almost impossible to efface or even moderate.’

‘Although used mainly in secular schools, this book calls for a searching inquiry into the political and social morality implicit in the American constitutional order.’

‘Discourses reflect viewpoints that are implicit in social movements and cultural and political institutions in our society, and change as ideas and values shift.’

‘Civil and political rights may constitute the condition for and thus be implicit in economic and social rights.’

‘The impression is that we are witnesses after the fact and once again we naturally construct a hypothetical narrative, its tragedy implicit in the necessarily tawdry ingredients.’

‘For, as Bataille says, ‘it takes an iron nerve to perceive the connection between the promise of life implicit in eroticism and the sensuous aspect of death’.’

‘The notions of transaction and reciprocity-I do for you what you do for me-are also implicit in moral concepts like the golden rule, the social contract, and enlightened selfinterest.’

‘While implicit in both the Generalized Model and social marketing models, this involves formative and summative evaluation.’

‘There are other assumptions implicit in the language used to describe community capacity and social capital.’

‘It is only to say that his norms were not implicit in any notion of the ‘social’.’

‘This characteristic was implicit in the women's concerns for meeting basic human needs for their families and their description of making use of the resources in their environment.’

‘Jung intuitively felt this pointed to an acausal archetypal order at the root of all phenomena which is responsible for the meaningfulness implicit in the coincidence of associated physical and mental events.’

‘In my view, efficiency is implicit in the concept of sustainability, which is ingrained in the bill's purpose and elsewhere.’

‘One could dwell on the fact that it contains several inherent contradictions and that the numbers implicit in the proposals don't add up.’

‘Scarcity is also implicit in anti-globalisation arguments against the development of global water markets.’

‘What assumptions are implicit in these sorts of relationships between subjects and objects (computers)?’

‘The contradictions implicit in this argument are fairly obvious.’

‘A legitimate value would have to be one implicit in the nature of legal reasoning itself.’



3 With no qualification or question; absolute.



Examples: 

‘an implicit faith in God’

‘I have further narrowed the field of important questions by following some implicit principles.’

‘The patient has read a bit, is very anxious, and reaches the doctor most often imagining the worst and with implicit faith in this ‘worker of miracles’.’

‘He has implicit faith in his advice so in spite of many people's doubts and reservations, it is now as successful and professional a partnership as there is on tour.’

‘The young intelligentsia refuse to place implicit faith in God and begin to ask why and wherefore.’

‘As Mom faced her illness, she did so in a spirit of fortitude based on an implicit faith and a godly life.’

‘How many times have you read those words, which have become a flippant phrase which contains a hint of both the scepticism and implicit faith we have in science?’

‘This modern young man has implicit faith in God.’

‘Her implicit faith in others allows her to approach Mateo without fear, rather than to cower away from him like the other inhabitants of the tenement.’

‘It was her sympathy, her love for him, and her implicit faith in him, which made the Prophet love her dearly.’

‘My faith in prayers took an awful tumble that day, and I doubt whether implicit faith ever returned.’

‘As truths, they are worthy of the most implicit faith that can be given to human testimony.’

‘But if you agree to this, I'll need your complete, total, and implicit trust.’

‘The message was basic to the Victorian army: that systematic uniformity and implicit obedience were essential.’

‘The quality of training programs was variable, but they always contained the implicit belief in the rightness of obedience to orders from those above, and the threat of dismissal if rules were not followed.’



4 (of a function) not expressed directly in terms of independent variables.



Examples: 

‘This paper contains his famous deep implicit function theorem.’

‘Actually, since the domain of a function is usually implicit from context, putting the * in front of an extended function is slightly redundant and thus usually omitted.’

‘In figure 2b, the implicit function is plotted for different values of q.’

‘The foundation for such an study is provided by the implicit function theorem, formulated below.’



Related Forms: 

implicitly, adverb
implicitness or implicity, noun
unimplicitly, adverb
implicitness, implicity, noun



French: 

 implicite
 ses paroles laissaient deviner ses sentiments
 total, absolu



90. Statute

1 A written law passed by a legislative body.



Examples: 

‘the Act consolidated statutes dealing with non-fatal offences’

mass noun ‘immunities granted to trade unions by statute’

‘Rules are written to reflect the statutes passed in legislation.’

‘Congress has passed statutes making a defendant pay the fee of a plaintiff's lawyer if the plaintiff prevails in the case.’

‘It is not entirely clear from this paper, it may be clear from the original: is this form of lease prescribed by statute or regulation?’

‘In choosing between these submissions we must first remind ourselves of the relevant provisions of statute and subordinate legislation.’

‘It is one thing to prosecute to conviction and to take positive steps authorised by statute to confiscate the proceeds of crime from the convicted defendant.’

‘What I am saying is there may be a difference conceptually in placing a limitation on jurisdiction conferred by statute?’

‘We have precisely the same structure - a monopolistic, representation body endorsed by statute.’

‘In reading the objectives, instructions and guidance the court is not construing a statute, or even subordinate legislation.’

‘The provision or the ability to suspend a sentence is provided by statute.’

‘The jurisdiction to stay, although introduced by statute in the field of arbitration agreements, is in origin an equitable remedy.’

‘But in all other contexts in ordinary criminal appellate statutes with which this country is familiar, what the jury did may not be ignored.’

‘In my judgment, that argument does less than justice to the fact that the review procedure is provided for by statute.’

‘Thus statutes were passed with the object of giving landlords a return sufficient to induce them to make accommodation available.’

‘The principles relating to interpretation of statutes require that the words of a statute be given the meaning which they bore at the time the statute was passed.’

‘You can have a common law in the statute, I suppose, in some loose sense.’

‘It is not suggested in the present case that there was any liability for failure to exercise this power, either under the statute or at common law.’

‘However the issue is decided by construction of the section of the statute not the common law.’

‘With this strong new federal interpretation of the act, states may now be able to add language to their own rules and statutes regarding state's control of exotic species.’

‘Parts 2 and 3 dealing with statutes and rules are already available in the market at lower prices.’

‘That seemingly innocuous statute implicitly included rules for classification and censorship.’



1.1 A rule of an organization or institution.



Examples: 

‘the appointment will be subject to the statutes of the university’

‘Both sides claim the backing of World Trade Organization statutes for their positions.’

‘Ironically, it appeared to have no effect on the organisation's statutes or policy positions.’

‘Today, they are marketing themselves as ‘financial cooperatives,’ even though they are organized under different statutes.’

‘Many states have statutes or administrative rules about some specific content to be required in medical records, and these can and must be tailored into any CBE system.’

‘Practice standards also can establish restrictions through statutes, rules, or both, on the practice of an occupation with the use of special enforcement.’

‘This language suggests that a state legislature could even ignore the results of a presidential election conducted under its own rules - the very statutes it enacted.’

‘Gone were the smothering rules and statutes of the Church.’

‘Most custom is supported by statutes of organizations, churches, or clubs, if not guaranteed by the state.’

‘By ruling the statute unconstitutional, the decision affects every county in New Jersey.’

‘Parliament's own rules - though not statute - give the courts that much consideration.’

‘Indeed, it seems certain that the major Catholic institutions are not going to change their by-laws or statutes to accommodate the requirements for the mandate.’

‘Thirty-eight states revised and re-enacted their death penalty laws after the 1972 Court ruling that all but a few capital statutes were unconstitutional.’

‘The founding meeting approved a statute and leadership of the organisation, banker Emil Hursev told journalists.’

‘Similar to the Asquith Colleges, they were governed by French university statutes, and the staff members were accorded the rights of French academics.’

‘He worked hard to reform the statutes of Cambridge University and, when the Government set up a Commission to propose reforms, he was appointed to it.’

‘They claimed members were not given prior notice and the university's academic council must be consulted before the governing body can make changes to university statutes.’

‘Alexander, disliking harsh measures, in 1863 approved a new set of university statutes.’

‘There may be the rare exception, such as a working sheep dog, which could fall within the statute, but the exception only proves the rule.’

‘The Allies drafted a statute that laid out the rules for trial procedure and defined the crimes to be tried.’

‘The powers bestowed by this statute are completely unlimited, restricted by no law or institution.’



1.2 (in biblical use) a law or decree made by a sovereign, or by God.



Examples: 

‘‘I incline my heart to perform Thy statutes,’ is a verse that occurs in several forms in the psalm.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 loi 
 loi   de prescription, prescription   légale
 règle 
 le règlement, les statuts  mpl



91. Acoustic

1 Relating to sound or the sense of hearing.



Examples: 

‘dogs have a much greater acoustic range than humans’

‘Their underwater acoustic sense and echo-location skills are legendary.’

‘The place has been designed with a great acoustic sense.’

‘Quickly sensing the acoustic mismatch, the woman closes the bathroom door, muting the water sounds.’

‘But even when they separate they remain in acoustic range.’

‘The hard terrazzo floors and glass walls that border the terraced atrium bounce ambient noise around, creating a sense of acoustic community.’

‘But very sensitive hearing is necessary to hear all the acoustic cues in speech sounds.’

‘Once the pod is in acoustic range, Luna will be released in hopes he reunites with his family.’

‘Microjets can be powered by compressed air, thermal bubbles, and even acoustic waves.’

‘Such samples display a large number of acoustic modes, with little separation in frequency.’

‘As it happens, these neurons are also very sensitive to the acoustic boundaries between speech sounds, as are monkeys and human infants.’

‘To find out, the research team devised an experiment using an electronic shaker that converts acoustic sounds into vibrations.’

‘To achieve this coordination, songbirds must open and close their beaks in register with the acoustic frequency of the sound being produced.’

‘Other acoustic experiences, such as the hearing of human voices, may have been due to direct electric stimulation of the auditory cortex.’

‘Until now, no one had measured the absolute acoustic profile of the human body - that is, how the body scatters sound waves independently of where it happens to be.’

‘It was an excellent environment for the seismic acoustic and infrared passive sensors once you could get them into the ground.’

‘On the other hand, cooling makes acoustic noise, which human beings don't tolerate well.’

‘Thus, territorial male bullfrogs do not appear to assess an opponent's fighting ability based solely on the fundamental frequency of acoustic signals.’

‘Today, enemy targets can be engaged at ranges where they are seen on an electronic device solely as an item of electromagnetic, infrared, or acoustic data.’

‘At 50° C an acoustic alarm sounds and the PC system shuts itself down at temperatures above 53° C.’

‘Although it is impossible to prevent many diseases that affect the hearing, it is possible to reduce the risk of acoustic trauma (hearing loss from loud noise).’



1.1 (of building materials) used for soundproofing or modifying sound.



Examples: 

‘acoustic tiles’

‘Hard, smooth surfaces are more sound-reflective than rough surfaces, or ones that are covered with fabric or acoustic materials.’

‘Then open-web joists would be installed between the arch segments, and when these were completed acoustic metal decking was attached to the entire assembly.’

‘Then you can start deciding things like where to place furniture and acoustic material, finding a good room that's not a hallway next to a jackhammer and so on.’

‘When acoustic texture material is wet, asbestos fibers are withheld from release into the air.’

‘Interior surfaces are of pine and birch plywood boarding and acoustic wood louvres.’

‘Lead paint, which existed mostly on the window frames and in acoustic tile, were carefully removed, and the asbestos is being either removed or encapsulated.’

‘Apparently this quietness was achieved by using ‘sound-deadening materials, additional door seals and acoustic glass’.’

‘Highly light reflective, acoustic tiles let more available light reflect back into the room, and save money in utility costs.’

‘The floor was tiled in striking high quality vitreous tiles from Germany and the ceiling lined with acoustic tiles to minimise sound.’

‘It pertains to the removal of sprayed asbestos coatings used for thermal and acoustic insulation in buildings and on boilers in industrial plants.’

‘But even genuine acoustic foam comes in different fire-resistant grades.’

‘The ceiling itself mirrored the floor - white acoustic tile, smooth and nearly unbroken.’

‘My room came with a vast stain spreading across the acoustic tiles in the ceiling.’

‘As a patient, you spend a great deal of time, sometimes days at a time in severe situations, flat on your back and staring at stained acoustic tiles.’

‘Innovations within the product lines of acoustic tile manufacturers allow for a more clean, crisp uncluttered aesthetic.’

‘When noise reduction is the goal, it is important to look at the acoustic tiles' NRC or CAC ratings.’

‘A smug smile on her face, she reached up and found her grip on the acoustic tile.’

‘There was a bullet hole in one of the stained acoustic tiles there.’

‘You should use an airless gun to prime and paint your acoustic ceiling, by angling your gun slightly and spraying it lightly in all directions.’

‘It's not recommended to roll paint on an acoustic ceiling, as it is very porous.’



1.2 (of a device or system) utilizing sound energy in its operation.



Examples: 

‘Just as camera lenses focus light, acoustic lenses reshape sound, spreading it horizontally to increase the sensation of space.’

‘In contrast to the centrality of the plan, the ceiling evokes the axiality of traditional church spaces and generates a remarkable degree of drama through acoustic devices.’

‘At Oxford University, researchers have developed an acoustic camera that builds up visual pictures using sound.’

‘Just Recently researchers were able to determine the damage to the ship by imaging the sunken liner with an acoustic device known as a sub-bottom profiler.’

‘‘That tide gauge uses an acoustic device to record the level of the sea's surface,’ she explains.’

‘The system propagates an acoustic energy beam, which the antenna array directs against one of the buildings.’

‘That plan will see a ban on driftnets in some EU waters and the use of acoustic devices, or pingers, to repel dolphins and related species from driftnets.’

‘This structure is derived from the melon of other odontocetes, and like the melon, may serve as a sort of acoustic lens.’



1.3 (of an explosive mine or other weapon) able to be set off by sound waves.



Examples: 

‘Once this had been introduced, the Germans began to use acoustic mines which were detonated by the sound of a ship's propeller acting on a diaphragm within them.’

‘This is the noise-maker for sweeping acoustic mines.’

‘Agate generates the acoustic signature of any ship in order to trigger acoustic mines.’

‘When the Second World War broke out, Crick was put to work for the British Navy developing magnetic and acoustic mines for use against German submarines and ships.’

‘At the outbreak of the Second World War, he transferred to the Admiralty, designing magnetic and acoustic mines in which the circuitry would enable enemy ships and sweeps to be distinguished.’

‘The start of a three week blockage of the Suez Canal by the Germans placing magnetic and acoustic mines there.’

‘Current capabilities may limit future acoustic weapons to close-in engagements due to range and size of the required equipment.’

‘So, on the night of 3 November, 1940, magnetic and acoustic mines parachuted down from the Heinkels into the sea close to Milford Haven.’

‘Alternately, the use of high power microwave technology, acoustic weapons or nonlethal chemicals might be called for.’

‘What about nonlethal devices such as acoustic or heat ‘weapons’?’

‘During the war, he joined the British Admiralty Research Laboratories where he designed acoustic and magnetic mines.’



2 (of popular music or musical instruments) not having electrical amplification.



Examples: 

‘a sad, gentle acoustic ballad’

‘old-fashioned acoustic instruments’

‘I listen to as much acoustic music as electronic these days; I like to keep an open mind.’

‘It's a beautiful album, and solo acoustic music doesn't get much better than this.’

‘It's a total transition - he's gone from acoustic jazz into electric jazz-rock.’

‘Murray, who is no longer with a band, played a set of rocksteady and reggae tunes on acoustic guitar.’

‘It's a superb example of acoustic jazz ensemble playing and lovely multi-horn arranging.’

‘Because the band which has defined the sound of contemporary bluegrass over the last decade or so raises the bar in acoustic music with every new record.’

‘While another strong contender for best track on the album is Black Mountain, a haunting ballad built around a strong acoustic guitar riff and some heady stabs of violin.’

‘You got your folky-picked acoustic guitar riff, check.’

‘It's driven by a great bassline, some excellent acoustic guitar riffs and finds Nic Denson's vocals at their most spellbinding.’

‘Neil Young says Jansch did for the acoustic guitar what Jimi Hendrix did for the electric guitar.’

‘‘St Christopher’ gently swings to a jazzy acoustic guitar and resembles nothing less than prime period Joni Mitchell.’

‘It's been a while since an album has taken such great lengths to show that there is some tangible relation between the worlds of electronic and acoustic music.’

‘Appropriately, the movements are accompanied by live electronic and acoustic music.’

‘the Pacific women's trio Manuhiri from New Zealand and Tonga, with their contemporary acoustic music and lush harmonies.’

‘In some quieter moments acoustic and slide guitars give them a breezy alt-country feel, while other songs seem designed for dancing.’

‘While many musicians of his generation were turning their back on acoustic music, he remained a loyal folkie.’

‘He also switched between acoustic and electric guitar regularly throughout the night.’

‘For anybody who likes playing the acoustic guitar, this album is a must.’

‘This album is pure laid back grooves, acoustic guitars, and blissed out melodies.’

‘Yay, it's got both acoustic guitars and electronics!’



1 The properties or qualities of a room or building that determine how sound is transmitted in it.



Examples: 

‘the Symphony Hall has perfect acoustics’

‘Wavy perforated metal panels aid the room's acoustics yet appear to float off of the brick walls.’

‘However, the acoustics in that room where dreadful (very high ceiling), but Eric and Andre (2nd guitar and bass) did a good job and put on a good show.’

‘His voice, as heard over the television, is not ideally modulated, but it was probably adapted to the acoustics in the room as he heard his own voice.’

‘Good sound guys can figure out the acoustics during sound check relatively quickly, but that's only going to go so far.’

‘But the shape of the rooms created terrible acoustics.’

‘The cave's acoustics intensified the sound, causing her to become fully aware of the headache she was trying to ignore in the hope of placating it.’

‘They all resonate at the same pitch, yet produce a constant, layered dissonance due to the room's inconsistent acoustics.’

‘The acoustics within a room depend on the key issues of reverberation, room shape, and interior noise control.’

‘The acoustics in this room sometimes are a little deceptive.’

‘The courtroom was huge, but the acoustics in the room were good and even the slightest bit of breathing could be heard.’

‘The acoustics in the living room, thanks to its high ceiling and scant furniture, were incredible.’

‘I look at this place and think, ‘jeez, from the perfect acoustics and sightlines of the Roman amphitheaters, it's all been downhill from there.’’

‘‘The perfect acoustics in the Heritage Centre make it the ideal venue for storytelling, music and song,’ says Ms Byrne.’

‘The attention to detail is magnificent and manifests itself in everything from the programme to the seating arrangements to the acoustics.’

‘The beautiful opera house claims to be one of the best in Europe, with perfect acoustics and frescoes painted by Karoly Lotz.’

‘‘The acoustics in this house can play tricks with sounds,’ the earl continued.’

‘Luckily the room was not without excellent acoustics (even if her ears were still ringing a bit).’

‘The venue, Victoria Hall, is a beautiful 101-year-old local landmark which has superb acoustics and facilities and lends itself perfectly to this event.’

‘Unfortunately, the debate was hampered by the acoustics in the hall, and many of the participants, myself included, were unable to follow much of what was said.’

‘The Cathedral is a beautiful venue for concerts and recitals and all musicians who play there comment on the wonderful acoustic of the building.’



2 The branch of physics concerned with the properties of sound.



Examples: 

‘Tyndall lectured on acoustics’

‘Current advances in science and technology, particularly in the area of acoustics and high technologies, enable a more complete utilization of the audio band.’

‘He studied mathematical physics and acoustics producing a major study in 1862 which looked at musical theory and the perception of sound.’

‘Thus, the field of acoustics covers a vast array of different areas of use, and they are constantly expanding.’

‘Thompson, for example, could easily have written a history of technological changes in the history of sound and acoustics.’

‘Swedenborg joined his mysticism with a keen interest in natural science, especially acoustics.’

‘Duhamel worked on partial differential equations and applied his methods to the theory of heat, to rational mechanics and to acoustics.’

‘Unit Conversion Utility - consists of 47 electronic conversions in seven categories useful for forecasting, acoustics and nautical science.’

‘Since that time, considerable advances have been made in the science of underwater acoustics and the hardware used for the detection of faint signals.’

‘Music and the science of sound and acoustics stand on the brink of huge change.’

‘In the following article, Matthew Malsky analyzes the effect of digital technology on the science of acoustics in pursuit of a ‘real’ listening experience.’

‘Rayleigh developed laboratory courses in heat, electricity and magnetism, properties of matter, optics, and acoustics.’

‘He specializes in ocean acoustics, signal processing and physical oceanography.’

‘It was Murray who taught Alexander Graham Bell the basics of acoustics and electricity and thus was the grandfather, if not the father, of the telephone.’

‘Driven to match his father's prominence as a speech analyst, he undertook research in acoustics and speech with the aid of electrical and mechanical devices.’

‘He studied continuum mechanics, lunar theory with Clairaut, the three body problem, elasticity, acoustics, the wave theory of light, hydraulics, and music.’

‘During World War I Fubini studied the accuracy of artillery fire and these investigations led him on to work on acoustics and electricity.’



Related Forms: 

nonacoustically, adverb
unacoustically, adverb
nonacoustical, adjective
acoustically, adverb
nonacoustic, adjective, noun
unacoustic, adjective
unacoustical, adjective



French: 

 acoustique
 acousticien  m, acousticiennef
acousticienne
 guitare   sèche



92. Caption

1 A title or brief explanation accompanying an illustration, cartoon, or poster.



Examples: 

‘he designed a series of posters with the caption: ‘No One is Innocent’’

‘Bournemouth Council now uses cartoon captions on its posters to attract attention.’

‘The captions accompanying posters (which showed streams of bright sunlight through the clouds) were written in mock bible-speak.’

‘Every key work is illustrated and accompanied by an explanatory caption.’

‘The names of persons in the photographs should be clearly labelled on the back along with captions, titles or explanations.’

‘The illustrations are often accompanied by explanatory captions which detail information not found in the text and this makes the book interesting to page through.’

‘Interviews, explanations and captions accompany and illuminate throughout.’

‘Each picture is accompanied by the informative captions describing the history the area covered in this book.’

‘One important artwork that represents that style is highlighted on each poster, along with four smaller reproductions with short explanatory captions and a timeline.’

‘Brief descriptive captions would have enhanced the understanding of the life of the people and perhaps added more understanding to the text of the folktales as well.’

‘The caption to the illustration on page 185 describes Tom Thomson as ‘a distinguished member of the Canadian artists known as the Group of Seven.’’

‘Along with information, the paintings which were on display at the India Habitat Centre on June 21 and 22, were accompanied with captions, anecdotes and even poems.’

‘Their expressive, almost-human faces and brief, tragic captions brought me to tears, and I had to sit down and wipe my eyes.’

‘Maybe it's not so easy writing witty captions to New Yorker cartoons.’

‘The caption over your illustration of the proposed extension to the library at the University of York would surely be more apt if it read 1920s revisited.’

‘When I looked at the cartoon I tried to come up with all the aspects of it; I tried to incorporate the whole cartoon into the little caption.’

‘The caption to the cartoon says, ‘Awkward predicament for you to solve.’’

‘Now he's showing some other older work - similar to the picture above but this other series contrasts images of rich and poor people accompanied by captions written by them.’

‘Each image will be accompanied by a caption and a small digital image of the building as it looks today.’

‘The photographs date from 1895 through 1906; they are accompanied by captions and entries about Chinese American history.’

‘Pain Free in Six Weeks is liberally interspersed with light-hearted illustrations and informative captions.’



1.1 A piece of text appearing on a cinema or television screen as part of a film or broadcast.



Examples: 

‘the programme has a closing caption thanking the university for its cooperation’

‘The film, punctuated by captions highlighting what the party considers key achievements, wasn't so much about setting out key pledges but setting a tone and feeling for Labour's protagonists.’

‘To judge by the Estonian television captions, the first day of the Leaving Cert was marked by the coming together of two trade unions, EESTI and IIRIMAA.’

‘And on the simplest level, there was a disconcerting clash between the postmodern textuality dispensed by the singers and the humble captions on the screen.’

‘Dear BBC, that's not the best caption to use on screen for the latest information about the Space Shuttle disaster, is it?’

‘However, according to the archived video of the ad linked above, media reports and interviews with a high-level campaign official and political experts, the caption did not appear in the original ad.’

‘It's only in the second third of the film - when the captions disappear and Slim's on the run - that Enough becomes the film it should've been.’

‘For any broadcast program with TV captions, you can immediately reuse them, which is something nobody is doing.’

‘Display text captions with each video stream.’

‘Prior to this weather charts had been presented on screen with captions.’

‘In the first scene of the film a caption informs us that the events take place in ‘Southern Italy, 1978.’’

‘A caption flashes across the screen listing the substitutes for both teams.’

‘A static caption on screen for several minutes on end is unusual today but was a staple of television graphics from the fifties to the early eighties.’

‘The Pentagon became adept at supplying video-game-like pictures of U.S. missile strikes at the same time that it began to provide the large-type captions on TV screens.’

‘The caption, ‘Six Months Later’ appears on the screen for a moment.’

‘Apparently this caption appeared on Sky News last night.’

‘The new version also does not display the lyrics of the national anthem on the screen, ‘because the captions would interfere with the film's visuals,’ Lin said.’

‘First, a note on the film's opening caption, which reads, ‘Based on a true story.’’

‘I started to pay more attention and noticed that they had captions at the top and the bottom of the screen.’

‘By rights, the lower half of the TV screen should then have been filled by a caption reading: ‘CHEERS!’’

‘Remember when newsreaders just read the news, without the caption and the illustration and the crawl at the bottom of the screen?’



1.2 The heading of a legal document.



Examples: 

‘Deeds, captions on cases, and other legal forms like subpoenas all serve the purpose of giving notice, which is how lawyers and the courts communicate with the public.’

‘The case is notable not for the momentousness of the underlying legal question but for its amusing caption.’

‘Defendants' motion to remove Kama's name from the caption of this case is ALLOWED.’

‘If yes, provide details of each case or proceeding on an attached sheet, including caption, court and index or docket number, the particulars, and the disposition.’



 Provide (an illustration) with a title or explanation.



Examples: 

with two objects ‘the photograph was captioned ‘Three little maids’’

‘The photographs are carefully captioned, providing simple but interesting details about the plants and creatures.’

‘But the New York Times admired Magnussen's design when it was introduced and captioned its illustration of it ‘The Lights and Shadows of New York.’’

‘Informative text provides a running commentary, and each photo is captioned with historical details.’

‘Apparently bored in a cabinet meeting, he captioned one sketch of John Foster Dulles with the then popular little axiom, ‘Dull, duller, Dulles.’’

‘I went to Yahoo to search for her pic, and a stupid fan of hers (I suppose he is deluded) captioned the photos I found as ‘Very very pretty!’’

‘None of the photographs was captioned or identified in any way, so that they posed, innocently, as a generic representation of Cork and Galway at play on a sunny afternoon.’

‘I don't think the 31 officials were aware that the photographs were incorrectly captioned, I certainly was not.’

‘The painting is captioned with a quote from Nichols, explaining that all nationality disappears as a combatant drowns.’

‘They've been taking similar liberties recently in their entertainment sections, captioning photographs of celebrities with made-up quotes.’

‘The next day, the newspaper captioned his photo, ‘Baby Doll.’’

‘And the few reproduced images are captioned with the name of the copyright holder of the photographic reproduction, but not with the location of the original work.’

‘It wasn't an issue with the robot photos, but some photographs are captioned with quite extraordinary zeal and passion.’

‘The photographs are actually captioned and identify the unfamiliar faces - an unusual courtesy.’

‘Indeed, Natural History wrongly captioned the photo on page 76.’

‘Even more surprising is that some of the illustrations, including Figure 3, are not captioned at all.’

‘He is fiercely protective of his pictures, printing each one himself, handling them with protective gloves, captioning them meticulously while Shelly records them.’

‘Because the stories were laid out and captioned by editors - not photographers - they generally do not reveal the circumstances behind the photos or give the photographer's viewpoint.’

‘Min advised that photos as published were not of this incident and were captioned so.’

‘Now that the contest is under way, every week features three cartoons in various stages of being captioned.’

‘For example, a photograph of an all-female press club board of governors was captioned.’



Related Forms: 

supercaption, noun
subcaption, noun
captionless, adjective
uncaptioned, adjective



French: 

 légende 
 sous-titre  m
 sous-titre  m
 mettre une légende à,   légender
  sous-titrer



93. Akin

1 Of similar character.



Examples: 

‘something akin to gratitude overwhelmed her’

‘genius and madness are akin’

‘The limestone pavement gives the island a character akin to the Burren with a similar flora.’

‘This gives it a unique character, more akin to a board game such as chess than to a normal card game.’

‘As Ray puts it, this is akin to the change and variation occurring among the characters in a story.’

‘It was his character which was unpredictable, akin to a time-bomb waiting to go off.’

‘That's the way he characterised your approach and he said that was akin to blackmail.’

‘It's more akin to buying a lottery ticket than paying for a service.’

‘Since the collapse of Enron in January 2002, maintenance has become more akin to life support.’

‘Something akin to the process of declaring saints of the Roman Catholic Church.’

‘In fact, the Chinese model is akin to the Gandhian scheme of decentralised development.’

‘At the moment the situation is very much akin to the tail wagging the dog.’

‘The effect is somewhat akin to accelerating through various 20th century musical schools.’

‘Salvaging good news from such a disaster may be akin to pulling a shopping trolley out of a canal - what exactly do you gain?’

‘But within the Labour tribe, it is akin to smashing a sacred tablet of stone.’

‘There are areas of every American city that you steer clear of or hurry through because they are more akin to third than first world.’

‘Winstone proclaims his love for West Ham as he tops up his tan by a Spanish pool, looking something akin to an orange Smart car.’

‘Goodwin describes the process as being akin to working on a jigsaw.’

‘Without having read his comments, something akin to that feeling always propelled me on.’

‘This is an experience that cannot be replicated outside a university or something at least akin to it.’

‘With 12 independently administered areas, the city is more akin to a series of linked villages.’

‘When it comes to knocking the stuffing out of rival teams, Hearts are becoming something akin to specialists.’



1.1 Related by blood.



Examples: 

‘my parents were akin, probably half cousins’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 qui ressemble à, qui tient de
 apparenté à



94. Albeit

 Though.



Examples: 

‘he was making progress, albeit rather slowly’

‘Back to the theme of homicide, albeit in a world rather more familiar than that of Minority Report.’

‘It's a concept album in that it tells a story - albeit with a rather lame twist at the end.’

‘They were getting it, albeit slowly, but the results were mixed to say the least.’

‘Sports news is one area where some improvement is needed, albeit really rather slight.’

‘Negotiation and mediation seems to be solving the Irish question albeit very slowly.’

‘But if there are any pluses in this at least now people will hear the truth, albeit in a court of law.’

‘The area continued as a centre for music into the Seventies and beyond, albeit on a much smaller scale.’

‘It was a no-turning-back speech, albeit spoken with an emotional catch in the throat.’

‘It seems to have washed its face and opened its doors to the outside world - albeit with caution.’

‘They can also guarantee a place in European competition next season, albeit the Uefa Cup.’

‘It was a clean-cut, agreeable dish albeit a touch bland for more adventurous palates.’

‘He has done that in 14 years as a test cricketer, albeit subject to selectorial whims.’

‘The presence of live actors and real objects anchors you, albeit tenuously, in the world.’

‘Throughout this year retail sales have shown a rise, albeit a declining one, on levels of a year ago.’

‘It has all the hustle and bustle of a typical Gordon Brown day, albeit in unusual surroundings.’

‘The report deluged him with criticism, albeit worded in the silky prose of a veteran mandarin.’

‘The same trend applies, albeit to a less impressive extent, in the abbreviated format.’

‘To a very large extent the BBC is a government corporation albeit at a couple of steps removed.’

‘Six famous women who, albeit unconsciously, gave us a classic of school literature.’

‘We hear a song from our past and are transported back to a memory from long ago, albeit a good or a bad one.’



Related Forms: 




French: 

 bien que, encore que, quoique
 une œuvre impressionnante bien qu'imparfaite or quoiqu'imparfaite



95. Mosaic

1 A picture or pattern produced by arranging together small pieces of stone, tile, glass, etc.



Examples: 

‘mosaics on the interior depict scenes from the Old Testament’

mass noun ‘the walls and vaults are decorated by marble and mosaic’

‘For floor mosaics, stone remained the dominant material.’

‘After the war he returned to easel painting and was also active as a book and magazine illustrator and as a designer of mosaics and stained glass.’

‘The themes of heraldry, religion, astronomy, astrology and the natural world are expressed in murals, mosaics, stained glass, intricate woodwork and stone and marble carvings.’

‘Glass mosaic tiles add a translucency and complexity that ceramic cannot match.’

‘A random pattern of glass mosaic tiles adds a splash of color to the bathroom between the girl's bedroom and the shared playroom.’

‘This sprawling citadel, looming high above the Andalusian city, boasts a dazzling array of mosaics, with tiles arranged in beautiful, intricate patterns, and is a testament to the beauty of mathematics.’

‘These include paintings, drawings, pottery, sculptures, mosaics, wall hangings, wood carvings, glass works and leather pieces, felt art, jewellery and much more.’

‘No ancient medium is more difficult to present in the museum setting than floor mosaics.’

‘Containing preserved frescoes and opulent glass mosaics, this remarkable archaeological discovery provides a rare insight into the daily life and culture of the period.’

‘For £25,000 upwards you can have a reinforced-concrete pool, lined with stone, tiles or mosaic, which should last 25 to 30 years.’

‘In the fine arts, the cartoon is a full-sized preliminary drawing for a work to be executed afterward in fresco, oil, mosaic, stained glass, or tapestry.’

‘Executed in a mixture of black and white marble, red, orange and brown terracotta and blue and green glass, the mosaics retain their voluptuous, dazzling intensity.’

‘Down here is the swimming pool, which is 41 ft long and elegantly lined with mosaic tiles, reminiscent of the Roman style.’

‘On his island retreat he finds a mosaic of the Tree of Life, the beautiful tree laden with fruit ignored by Adam and Eve in favour of the Tree of Knowledge.’

‘A stunning mosaic of the Last Supper, towering 80 ft over the altar, has also been cleaned and new lighting installed to bring the church back to life.’

‘In that year she traveled to Venice and commissioned the Salviati company to design the elaborate interior and exterior mosaic decoration for the church.’

‘One of the city's oldest pools, the Yeoville swimming pool, has received a sparkling, multi-toned blue mosaic facelift.’

‘The amber mosaic panels between the long mirrors and gilding have been painstakingly reproduced and constructed by Russian craftsmen.’

‘Miniature mosaic icons, as suggested by preserved examples, were produced for a very limited time in Byzantium and were highly prized.’

‘In the case of the miniature mosaic icons, these details allow the reader to scrutinize the production technique of this exacting art form.’

‘Like any mosaic it is a product of countless pieces.’



1.1 A colourful and variegated pattern.



Examples: 

‘the bird's plumage was a mosaic of slate-grey, blue, and brown’

‘In a contest for space, some of the anemones, sponges and barnacles sit on top of each other, creating a mosaic of contrasting colours.’

‘The ground was a mosaic of colours, as if haphazardly thrown together by a careless artist.’

‘The valley drops away below in a mosaic of yellow grass and green pastureland, and in the distance the sun glints off the Pacific Ocean.’

‘Even after flooding it looks lovely, a mosaic of meadows, traditionally managed fields and ancient woodland.’

‘The surrounding landscape is a mosaic of blue, white and pink soft corals, punctuated by arresting gorgonians, some exceeding 2m.’

‘She stopped playing, wondering how much time she had left to practice, and her eyes were greeted by a mosaic of colors that blanketed the entire room.’



1.2 A combination of diverse elements forming a more or less coherent whole.



Examples: 

‘a cultural mosaic’

‘Smith's profile of Muslims and Muslim communities reveals the rich mosaic of diverse ethnic groups of immigrants and converts.’

‘We are sensitive also to the values that ensure that our nation, a mosaic of diverse cultures and faiths, survives and thrives.’

‘We go further when we revitalize the bonds of the social connection by making kin of strangers, by embracing diversity that enriches the mosaic of our national unity.’

‘The Parisian suburbs are a mosaic of highly diverse socioprofessional and urban realities.’

‘Their traditions are diverse and their contribution to the bright mosaic of Indian culture commendable.’

‘The editors have constructed a diverse and complex mosaic of African American experiences.’

‘They called for voices that can speak for the diverse identities that make up the mosaic of humanity.’

‘The Indian rural market is a complex mosaic of mind-sets, cultures, and lifestyles.’

‘But, their lives can change for the better if they come to India, which has a rich mosaic of culture and tradition.’

‘His discursive poetry touches many factors, thus transforming a linear story into a mosaic of elements.’

‘The complex mosaic of traditions, religions, cultures, ethnicities and histories in the Arab world is lost to US and Israeli strategic planners.’

‘It is our hope that through deeper understanding, the diverse structural mosaic of Canadian society can be strengthened.’

‘The mosaic of events making up Indonesia's history becomes a clear pattern on which Indonesia has been designed as a nation.’

‘This is a poignant mosaic of testimonies performed by a very strong and versatile cast.’

‘Today's Europe is a rich mosaic of cultures, ethnicities, and religions.’

‘He added that grazing of the area would be a better option than mowing because it would allow a mosaic of habitats - including wildflowers and grasses - to flourish.’

‘It forms a mosaic of various habitats from woodland and ponds, to herb-rich calcareous grassland, resulting in a rich bio-reservoir of flora and fauna.’

‘At the end, the audience was left with the feeling that unlike the usual run of shows which are a mosaic of music and dance, here was something which had a meaning and a message too.’

‘Moore has no narrative, only a mosaic of loosely connected themes.’

‘The new album spans a wide selection of demographics and represents a mosaic of musical influences.’

‘Anderson knows how to amuse us with a mosaic of background details and throwaway lines.’

‘Personal experiences recounted by interviewees and recorded in archival material help to build up a mosaic of life in Germany between 1929 and 1949.’



1.3 An arrangement of photosensitive elements in a television camera.



Examples: 

‘Their camera used a light-sensitive mosaic that was discharged pixel by pixel as an electron beam scanned it, the discharge current intensity being proportional to the light falling on the dot.’



2 An individual (especially an animal) composed of cells of two genetically different types.



Examples: 

‘For example, some people are mosaics: Different cells in their body have different chromosomes.’

‘Not even the almighty gene provided any clear answers, since it was discovered that I was a mosaic, with some cells in my body having the XY genotype and others having XO.’

‘In addition, any one individual is actually a mixture, or mosaic, of DNA, half from each parent.’

‘In some crosses as many as 12.5 % of the somatic mosaics showed such dark patches.’



3 A virus disease that results in leaf variegation in tobacco, maize, sugar cane, and other plants.



Examples: 

‘On the right is a micrograph of the virus that causes tobacco mosaic disease in tobacco plants.’

‘However, its high susceptibility to sugar cane mosaic virus precludes its agronomical use.’

‘Tobacco mosaic is a virus that mottles leaves, stunts plants, and reduces yields.’

‘One of the earliest diseases to occur in seedling wheat will be the soil-borne mosaic virus which is already visible in Oklahoma and Kansas.’

‘Control - Because tomato mosaic is a virus, there is no chemical control for it.’

‘Wheat streak mosaic is the major disease in the southern Panhandle this year.’

‘The origin of the streak mosaic virus infections isn't known, Agriculture Minister Warren Truss said last week.’

‘Soybean mosaic disease caused by SMV occurs worldwide wherever soybean is grown and is regarded as one of the most important soybean diseases in many areas of the world.’

‘Some commercial plantings in New York become unproductive within three years because of mosaic virus while other plantings seem unaffected.’

‘For this reason, producers who hold seed should definitely start out with new seed lots every three to four years or at least have the seed lot tested for Soybean mosaic virus.’

‘And they found a link between one flavonoid and resistance to bean mosaic disease.’

‘Cauliflower mosaic virus is universally used as a ‘promoter’ which amplifies gene activity.’

‘In the field, it's hard to tell the difference between infection from soybean mosaic virus and bean pod mottle virus.’

‘Black raspberries also are very susceptible to mosaic virus.’

‘But during the early years of the 20th century, root rot and mosaic virus nearly destroyed the crop and the industry it supported.’

‘Some southern pea varieties are susceptible to mosaic viruses, powdery mildew, and leaf spot diseases.’

‘It is resistant to mosaic and matures 57 days from seed.’



1 Decorate with a mosaic.



Examples: 

‘he mosaicked the walls, ceilings, and floors’

‘Apart from an amusing shower scene, the action is remarkably stark in setting, confined mainly to the mosaicked floor of a palazzo whose crumbling foundations, strewn with old bones, reveal past grim deeds.’



1.1 Combine (distinct or disparate elements) to form a picture or pattern.



Examples: 

‘the digital data were combined, or mosaicked, to delineate counties’

‘To make a high-resolution image, we must mosaic many high-resolution images.’

‘Once the images are ordered they were georeferenced, then mosaicked together.’



 Denoting an individual composed of cells of two genetically different types.



Examples: 

‘Three alleles were chosen for the generation of mosaic clones on the basis of availability of cytological, genetic, and molecular data, as follows.’

‘The development of mosaic flies clearly illustrates the cell autonomy of sex determination in the somatic cells of Drosophila.’

‘Two lines were unusual in that mutant males regularly produced mosaic progeny that had large patches of somatic tissue lacking the paternal fourth chromosome.’

‘In cases where PCR recombination was suspected to occur uniquely in a single clone, the mosaic clone was removed from consideration.’

‘The analysis of genetically mosaic worms, in which some cells carry a wild-type gene and others are homozygous mutant, can reveal where in the animal a gene acts to prevent the appearance of a mutant phenotype.’

‘Evolutionists do not regard mosaic creatures such as the platypus as evidence of transformation of one basic kind of creature into another.’

‘In Drosophila, mosaic flies have been extensively exploited to dissect signal transduction pathways, to determine cell patterning events and to establish the cell autonomy of gene product.’



 Of or associated with Moses.



Examples: 

‘In the Old Testament, it was part of the Mosaic code that an Israelite could not be indicted and convicted based upon the testimony of one person.’

‘Of a critical turn of mind, he let drop a hint that there might be some doubt as to the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch; the hint was picked up six centuries later by Spinoza and led to modern Bible criticism.’

‘Then model your worship on the Mosaic tabernacle and priesthood.’

‘No matter what generation reads these words, they are commanded to claim the Mosaic history as their own and not merely to recall what their ancestors experienced long ago.’

‘The answer, as was suggested earlier, resides in an understanding of two pivotal covenants in the Old Testament, the Abrahamic and Mosaic covenants.’

‘It pertains to the nature of the Mosaic covenant.’

‘Israel was seen as God's son in the Mosaic covenant.’

‘They believed that there was only one God and that only he should be worshipped by sacrifice or any other means - agreeing with the contents of the first table of the Mosaic commandments.’

‘The Sabbath was, I agree, a covenantal sign for the Mosaic covenant, and it certainly ceased as a 7th day covenant.’

‘But the orienting theme throughout the Mosaic canon is life and its blessings, the affirmation of personhood.’

‘King Solomon's alliances are seen here not as threats to the pristine Mosaic ethos but as props to the peace.’

‘It is not peripheral but central to Mosaic religious experience and thought.’

‘This might be a reason for the Mosaic laws against eating carnivores and shellfish.’

‘I still don't understand the clinging to the Mosaic laws that Christianity still fights tooth and nail to do.’

‘They were seen as traitors because they no longer kept the Mosaic ceremonies or submitted to earthly priests.’

‘Nevertheless, he argued strongly in defense of the Mosaic origin of this primary list of Ten Commandments.’

‘Burnet sought to reconcile a Cartesian-derived historical account of the origins of the Earth with the creation account of the Mosaic tradition.’

‘Conversely, there is the Mosaic prohibition against murder of any kind, coupled with the idea of the body and soul as God's property, and perception of suicide as motivated by despair.’

‘It is certainly not my intention to suggest that the Mosaic plan could be used as an exact blueprint in a society that has moved past the pastoral or agricultural stage.’



Related Forms: 

post-Mosaic, adjective
premosaic, adjective
mosaically, adverb
mosaicist (məˈzeɪɪsɪst), noun



French: 

 mosaïque, de Moïse



96. Construe

1 Interpret (a word or action) in a particular way.



Examples: 

‘his words could hardly be construed as an apology’

‘I find it difficult to see how those words could be construed as a dismissal of the committee's recommendations.’

‘He thought that if the words were construed as including the specific needs of a disabled child it would be necessary in every such case to determine what that child's specific needs were.’

‘While, in the first instance, a consolidating Act is to be construed in the same way as any other, if real doubt as to its legal meaning arises, its words are to be construed as if they remained in the earlier Act.’

‘In essence his submission was that those words were to be construed as being confined to torts and therefore did not include the pleaded acts of knowing assistance.’

‘The washing of dishes and the preaching of the word could both be construed as material expressions of devotion.’

‘Moreover words are to be construed as generally used in the jurisdiction of England and Wales.’

‘High Court strictures cannot be construed as a ban on demonstrations and rallies rather they are meant to hold them in a peaceful manner without causing much trouble to the public.’

‘Any such failure should be construed as contempt of court and should therefore attract prosecution of the police officers involved.’

‘This change was made because the word ‘commitment’ could be construed as a legally-binding promise of continued financial aid.’

‘The definition's use of words like ‘traitor’ cannot be construed as representations of fact.’

‘The right of access to a Court has been construed as including the right to effective enforcement of judgments.’

‘But opponents charged that tossing out the amnesty laws would open a can of worms and that Congress could be construed as overstepping bounds and infringing on the courts' decisions.’

‘I am tempted to ask him whether it could not be construed as denunciatory, but decide to leave its interpretation opened-ended and up to the individual viewer.’

‘The words are not to be construed as if they were provisions in Acts of Parliament.’

‘In such societies, one's eccentric taste is always more likely to be construed as a threat to the community - as a signifier of disloyalty - than as an icon of aspiration.’

‘Or if we sent an e-mail about that issue using our computer, it would probably be construed as a misuse of the computer.’

‘This should not be construed as a lack of interest in this offer of funding.’

‘He said that morale continued to suffer, but when officers raised their concerns with their superiors they were ‘either ignored or dealt with in such a way that can only be construed as bullying’.’

‘The advertisements correspond very well with the government's overall intent and I can't see how it could be construed as misleading in any way.’

‘‘There is legislation which clearly makes it an offence to offer or expose for sale any item which can be construed as obscene,’ the police spokeswoman said.’



2 Analyse the syntax of (a text, sentence, or word)



Examples: 

‘both verbs can be construed with either infinitive’

‘Alternatively, the verb might be construed with the direct object ‘life’.’

‘And explaining how to construe a sentence spoils its effect, just as explaining the punch line of a joke does.’

‘All we need to do is to construe each action sentence as involving an implicit existential quantification, with the variable of quantification taking events as its possible values.’

‘Although it is open to a court in limited circumstances to conclude that the words or syntax used is wrong, the purpose remains to construe the words used.’

‘It is permissible, where the context so allows, to construe words used in the plural as including the singular.’



2.1 Translate (a passage or author) word for word, typically aloud.



Examples: 

‘she was construing straight-faced a suggestive passage of Ovid’



Related Forms: 

unconstrued, adjective
construer, noun
construable, adjective
construability, noun



French: 

  interpréter,   expliquer
  expliquer
  analyser,   décomposer



97. Ambient

1 Relating to the immediate surroundings of something.



Examples: 

‘the liquid is stored at below ambient temperature’

‘Will operation in environments with significantly higher ambient temperatures cause a pump malfunction?’

‘One of the primary differences in these two environments is the average ambient temperature, both in the day and night.’

‘The hatchlings normally emerge after a period of about 45-55 days depending upon the ambient sand temperature and climatic conditions.’

‘At the end of incubation, samples were allowed to cool down to room temperature under ambient conditions and always maintained in an aqueous environment.’

‘Limited rainfall, high ambient temperatures, and a highly variable physical environment characterize Turkana district.’

‘Due to the sharp difference between cooled and ambient air temperatures, people who move between them risk colds and heat stroke.’

‘These should reduce your CPU temperature by at least 5 degrees centigrade in a 20 degrees centigrade ambient environment.’

‘If you have underfloor heating throughout, you will enjoy a better all-round ambient temperature in every room, not just on the ground floor.’

‘You haven't even been in the train long enough to feel the ambient temperature.’

‘All tests were run with an ambient temperature of 20 degrees Celsius.’

‘The 24 seedlings of each treatment were placed in one of two custom-designed root boxes capable of controlling root temperatures, while the shoots were exposed to the ambient greenhouse environment.’

‘Depending on soil type, questions of water usage and ambient temperature times determine the longevity and performance of soil/water combinations.’

‘Working in his back yard, aided by a schoolboy neighbor, he timed flashes and measured temperature and ambient light with equipment from the departmental storeroom.’

‘They read infrared radiation and are not affected by ambient light.’

‘All of these headphones use tiny microphones mounted on or inside the headset to pick up the ambient noise just before you hear it.’

‘Wide metal door sills and soft-blue ambient lighting welcome you into the car.’

‘The problem that Nasa has is that the electrical charging and heating effects caused by ambient particle radiation can disturb the delicate measurements needed to detect these effects.’

‘Current LCD displays on a wide range of applications can be difficult to read if the ambient light is too strong or the reader is not positioned in front of the screen.’

‘Seasonal variation in the moon's path through the night sky changes the variance in ambient moonlight between proximate new moons and full moons.’

‘On balance, having regard to the ambient background noise, I consider that the additional vehicle movements would not generate such noise and disturbance as to unacceptably harm residents' amenities.’



1.1 Relating to ambient music.



Examples: 

‘Forsaking the oeuvres of boy bands, their coverage has so far been saturated with unobtrusively tuneful ambient dance music.’

‘Harp arpeggios, ambient sounds, a typewriter and speech establish the mood.’

‘For those who aren't familiar with these projects, this collaborative release serves as an excellent introduction to a Danish collective that are doing some really impressive things with ambient guitar work at the moment.’

‘To my ear, the remixes are fine examples of ambient dub.’



2 Relating to or denoting advertising that makes use of sites or objects other than the established media (e.g. by placing slogans on the back of bus tickets).



Examples: 

‘Print ads complementing the TV and radio ads will run in national media, with ambient advertising at stations and on buses.’

‘Point-of-sale advertisements accounted for a quarter of the total ambient media spend.’

‘The campaign covers TV, radio, print and ambient media, with the message that the newspaper is worth re-appraising.’

‘The launch will be backed by a cinema, radio, outdoor and ambient advertising campaign.’

‘The campaign appeared on BBC television, radio and online as well as supported by ambient media.’



Related Forms: 

unambient, adjective
unambiently, adverb



French: 

 ambiant



98. Pane

1 A single sheet of glass in a window or door.



Examples: 

‘Doors with glass panes require a double-cylinder deadbolt to prevent someone from breaking the glass, reaching in and unlocking the door.’

‘A MAN who pleaded to causing damage to a door and breaking two panes of glass at a house was ordered to compensate the owner, at the November 22 sitting of Carlow District Court.’

‘In the central image, the girl sits on the top steps, the glass panes in the front door visible behind her.’

‘Mrs Platt said glass panes in the door of another Church Street shop had also been damaged in the same way.’

‘Roberts then appeared in the kitchen having smashed the glass pane in her door and removed the security chain.’

‘They had a row and he left and at Brown Street kicked a door and broke a pane of glass.’

‘There are two long, narrow windows and a walkout door with glass panes to a deck in the bedroom’

‘The glass pane on the door and every window were reduced to tiny fragments.’

‘Earlier in the day, my oldest brother had accidentally broken one of the glass panes in our kitchen door, which my mother had temporarily patched with a flap from a cardboard box.’

‘It could have been easily mistaken for a mall, with its multi-story commercial looking structure and the massive glass panes and doors.’

‘If your door has glass panes, are they properly glazed?’

‘Glass panes in select cabinet doors show vintage dishware; others bear fabric and chicken-wire inserts.’

‘When they entered the wooden doors with glass panes, a young teenage man with spiky blond hair and a cute grin greeted them.’

‘When single panes of toughened glass are used overhead such failure can have dangerous consequences.’

‘Doors are now large panes of glass with unobstructed views of the beach.’

‘When I saw the painting, strangely executed on the upper glass panes of a door, I was spellbound.’

‘Rather than foregrounding a central object when I gaze into a store window, I become interested instead in all that a single pane of glass can contain.’

‘It is still out of bounds, its ghostly emptiness - whole streets without a single pane of glass intact - telling its own poignant story.’

‘And better yet, the top half of the door was a large pane of glass that gave him a great view of the kitchen.’

‘The entire outside wall was a single pane of glass, covered only by a lacy curtain.’



1.1 A separate defined area within a window for the display of, or interaction with, a specified part of that window's application or output.



Examples: 

‘You should now see the audio tracks displayed on the right pane of the software window.’

‘It has some great features, including tabbed documents and a multi-pane screen with the ability to keep notes in a separate pane.’

‘As an example, here are images of the panes of a computer using a standard USB keyboard and mouse, and one using a Bluetooth keyboard and mouse connection.’

‘You are given a molecule, displayed in the right-hand pane, with its component atoms scattered in a maze of sorts.’

‘Click on a file in any of 220 formats and it will be displayed in the viewer pane.’

‘The View tab under the Settings menu allows you to add or remove items displayed on the Task pane.’

‘The browser has unique features, including the ability to split the window into panes, with each pane displaying different web sites or even a web site and the contents of a local directory.’

‘By dividing your main window with a set of vertical panes, you can resize this window, if you like.’

‘Once you have added all the keywords in the right pane which are applicable for your site, click on the next keyword in the left pane which is applicable for your site.’

‘Your search and results panes can be resized and customized to whatever layout you find appropriate.’



2 A sheet or page of stamps.



Examples: 

‘In 1958, the Post Office ceased the practice as collectors were purchasing only the plate blocks, leaving broken panes of stamps in post offices.’

‘The pane of 24 stamps also contained 24 connecting tabs in 12 designs.’

‘This cover bears a pane of nine stamps from the Wedgwood £3 book of stamps and is unaddressed.’

‘Each booklet contained a pane of 10 37c stamps from the current definitive range.’



Related Forms: 

paneless, adjective



French: 

 vitre , carreau  m
 un carreau
enêtre   panoramique



99. Extensive

1 Covering or affecting a large area.



Examples: 

‘an extensive garden’

‘This extensive over-development would affect the lives of everyone living in Fulford.’

‘Today it belongs to the Rockefeller Foundation, but the extensive gardens are open to small guided tours.’

‘The garden, quite extensive at that, had sported an abandoned look for a long time.’

‘The house and its gardens are set in extensive park land and a first impression is that of a comfortable stately home.’

‘After a walk round the extensive gardens and lake, the group adjourned to Lullingstone for lunch.’

‘All this plus extensive hilltop gardens with cross-London views, and it's all free.’

‘It is located within a cluster of houses and has a side entrance and an extensive rear garden.’

‘Now visitors can wander through the house and the extensive gardens landscaped by the poet.’

‘We wandered the extensive gardens of the home together and came to a steep grassy bank.’

‘Up at the top, the path widens out to reveal a large country house set in extensive gardens.’

‘Outside, the delightful wooded gardens have extensive river frontage and a sunny aspect.’

‘This is a fantastic walk on a broad ridge giving extensive views of the surrounding area and all above 2,000 feet.’

‘This, coupled with its extensive gardens, should be of interest to growing families.’

‘Outside, the extensive landscaped gardens are a defining feature of the property.’

‘The second bedroom features a door to the garden and extensive built-in wardrobes.’

‘Similarly, local hopes voiced in the consultation for extensive green areas are set to be disappointed.’

‘They carried out an extensive search of the area but nothing was found.’

‘This can hardly be called extensive given the area that New Malden covers.’

‘The phone was not recovered despite extensive searches of the area by teams of officers over the weekend.’

‘Our officers carried out an extensive search of the area this morning but he has not been seen again.’



1.1 Large in amount or scale.



Examples: 

‘an extensive collection of silver’

‘I have a fairly extensive amount of work done on the subject, and a number of links that are worth following.’

‘Your Honour will realise there is an extensive amount of material on there.’

‘There's nowhere else in the world you could see such an extensive and amazing collection of modern art.’

‘With such extensive legal power already in the hands of the government, why do we need to make things worse?’

‘The Ombudsman can look into all aspects of administration, and has extensive powers in law.’

‘Barker and Adair are thrilled by her snappish, difficult behaviour and her extensive shoe collection.’

‘Such an extensive collection surely implies an element of forethought.’

‘After a look at his extensive collection of trophies, it is easier to understand the decision.’

‘He became President under a revised Constitution which gave him extensive powers.’

‘Kumaratunga is increasingly relying on her extensive executive powers as president.’

‘Homes which will be affected by the extensive work will be contacted directly by Yorkshire Water.’

‘McClements also boasts an extensive wine list to complement the imaginative menus.’

‘The public toilets will also be given an extensive facelift and the whole site resurfaced with bay markings.’

‘The Action Group then undertook an extensive survey which was completed in five days.’

‘If at first you don't succeed then institute an extensive and wideranging review of your systems and processes.’

‘Rosie has also had extensive involvement with the Catholic Church and school activities.’

‘The Marine Institute has just completed an extensive refurbishment at its facilities.’

‘After many years of extensive research into this area I have also reached the same conclusion.’

‘Windy Hill Park on the estate is also set to be revamped with a new play area and extensive tidying in the coming months.’

‘The Barron Hall, a listed building is an asset to the area which needs extensive repairs.’



2 (of agriculture) obtaining a relatively small crop from a large area with a minimum of capital and labour.



Examples: 

‘extensive farming techniques’

‘Secondly, at the time of the Mayans there was no extensive agriculture in Venezuela.’

‘Viticulture is most extensive in the Rhine and Mosel valleys in west Germany and is an important export industry.’

‘The REPS scheme should be ideally suited to the more extensive type of farming in island areas.’

‘Will the drive for more extensive systems in farming lead to greater problems?’

‘One of the strengths of our agriculture is that we're extensive.’



Related Forms: 

nonextensiveness, noun
nonextensive, adjective
preextensively, adverb
extensiveness, noun
nonextensively, adverb
preextensive, adjective
extensively, adverb
extensiveness, extensivity  [ek-sten-siv-i-tee, ik-] /ˌɛk stɛnˈsɪv ɪ ti, ɪk-/, noun



French: 

 étendu
 important, considérable
 approfondi
 extensif
 ce problème a été largement traité dans les médias
 beaucoup utiliser quelque chose,aire un usage considérable de quelque chose



100. Reclusive

 Avoiding the company of other people; solitary.



Examples: 

‘he led a reclusive life’

‘He now lives a quiet, reclusive life in rural Cheshire, with wife Christine, shunning the media spotlight.’

‘If that is the case, it will thrust the reclusive billionaires into a limelight they have spent years avoiding.’

‘The reclusive Quaker became one of the most celebrated figures in chemistry when he presented his atomic theory in 1803.’

‘She gave interviews with her husband then, but in later years is only referred to as a reclusive television addict who refuses to go out or meet people.’

‘The normally reclusive Bob Dylan has revealed his hatred of most modern music in a rash of interviews to promote his 43rd album.’

‘Still, why would the normally reclusive local musical maverick suddenly seek mass approval?’

‘He is also famously reclusive and chary of talking about his craft.’

‘Relatively reclusive writers and artists consent to documentaries because exposure will help them commercially.’

‘He received criticism for his eccentric and reclusive lifestyle and for his attempts to use cosmetic surgery to change his skin colour.’

‘The film will feature Sarah Polley, a Canadian actress, as a reclusive nurse who abandons her first holiday in many years to work on a rig.’

‘In the years that followed, he became more violent and reclusive.’

‘She had been in ill-health and led a reclusive lifestyle, so news of her death did not gain the headlines it might have.’

‘Paul Summerston, the Old Bailey heard, led a reclusive lifestyle, rarely socialising and had only a few close friends.’

‘So, having finally learnt that you can trust no-one, I guess I became reclusive.’

‘Anonymity is not an option when you're a dwarf, even a reclusive one.’

‘And what about the rumours that Kubrick was reclusive, obsessive and difficult to work with?’

‘He appears to be somewhat inadequate and has lived a sheltered, reclusive life.’

‘October sees the 100th anniversary of the death of the reclusive French artist.’

‘Because he is reclusive and rarely gives interviews, his relationship with the club is intriguing.’

‘The inquest heard that the brothers were shy, reclusive men, who repeatedly ignored doctors.’



Related Forms: 

nonreclusive, adjective
reclusive, adjective
unrecluse, adjective
unreclusive, adjective
reclusion (rɪˈkluːʒən), noun



French: 

NULL



101. Transduce

 Convert variations in (a physical quantity) into an electrical signal, or vice versa.



Examples: 

‘a protein involved in transducing mechanical stimuli’



Related Forms: 




French: 

NULL



102. Convolution

1 A thing that is complex and difficult to follow.



Examples: 

‘the convolutions of farm policy’

‘More important, I still find it hard to follow the convolutions of the plot.’

‘Carey satirizes literary culture, plays with archetypes, exoticism, and the convolutions of travel yarns, and evokes Malaysia and Indonesia with aplomb.’

‘Surely we reasonable creatures could dispense with these convolutions?’

‘It's an interesting parallel, because jazz came in at the same time as the Modern style in architecture, and both have continued, but with convolutions and changes of style, up to the present time.’

‘Yes, laughter too; for in the self-contradictory convolutions of human thought and action, the funny can, innocently or not, coexist with the most tragic.’

‘The convolutions eventually snare the corrupt powerbrokers in their own deceptive political machinations.’

‘The dialogue will be mostly in English, a bonus when trying to weave one's way through the inevitable romantic convolutions of the operetta genre.’

‘They were handsomely backed in the convolutions of the plot by the rest of the cast, all of whom escaped the guillotine which loomed behind.’

‘Unfortunately, all of the melodrama and intentional plot convolutions don't add up to much.’

‘But what stopped me from really, really liking it was the utter convolution of the plot.’

‘The story seems to be supplemented every time the film-makers realise they're no closer to the target run-time they've been set by the studio and then just dissolves into its own convolution.’

‘I swear I'm trying to keep convolution to a minimum here, but this is no game of fishing in the carnival ducky pond, no siree.’

‘The bad news is that there's a great deal of convolution: events and emotions are very confused, the threads are tangled.’

‘For such are the convolutions of City's current cash crisis that should a buyer not be found by Saturday's deadline, the club will physically not close there and then.’

‘But given the convolutions of the US electoral system I willing to admit I could be wrong.’

‘I urge the apologists for the Prime Minister to stop their convolutions and twisting of the truth.’

‘The convolutions in the plotlines veer back and forth between intriguing and confusing.’

‘The convolutions of dress are of course largely to act as trip wires for the unwary.’

‘Although the plot convolutions probably employ too many convenient coincidences, suspension of disbelief happens effortlessly thanks to superb acting and directing throughout.’

‘I trust him and he knows the water and heating convolutions of the house inside out.’



2 A coil or twist.



Examples: 

‘crosses adorned with elaborate convolutions’

‘Their origin is not yet completely understood, although they are certainly related to convolutions of the intense solar magnetic field.’

‘Phosphor is clearly named for the pale, luminous green that animates a thick, pythonlike convolution which winds up from the bottom of the horizontal canvas and takes several loops around itself before exiting at the top.’

‘In this convolution, the edges of the blades in teeth 21-27 are serrated and show 15 denticles on each one.’

‘I go under the table to run my fingertip over their convolutions.’

‘Greatly enlarged, the convolutions of white seemed to waft up and westward toward the clouds of a buttermilk sky.’

‘If your horse isn't getting enough you'll see dramatic rings and convolutions in the hoof wall.’

‘Above, the ceiling was hidden behind convolutions and clusters of tubes and beams and stranger things.’

‘A disadvantage of the use of spacers is that the dynamic reach of the spacer causes a convolution in the adhesion image.’

‘These logic gates are easy to link together because they are just extra convolutions in the tracks.’

‘It stared at them with eyes they could not find in the convolutions of its grotesque skin.’

‘The line ran about eight hundred yards north to south, but in its convolutions stretched in overall length for more than two miles.’



2.1 The state of being or process of becoming coiled or twisted.



Examples: 

‘the flexibility of the polymer chain allows extensive convolution’

‘These fungiform structures are formed from a convolution of exocuticle.’

‘Thus, the force required to extend and compress their convolutions is very low and stays consistent from part to part and over a wide range of motion.’



3 A sinuous fold in the surface of the brain.



Examples: 

‘In people, nonhuman primates, and other mammals with relatively large brains, the cerebral cortex's convolutions permit its large surface area to cram inside the skull.’

‘Called an endocast, the model shows a variety of features, including the brain's size, shape, vessels, and convolutions.’

‘In addition, cholesterol depletion caused the convolutions of the basal membrane and the structure of the lateral membrane to be less complex and the membranes to be smoother in the DIC images.’

‘They say one particular convolution in the right part of the brain is responsible for this sensation, that it collects information from different parts of the brain to form an idea of where the human body is at any particular moment.’



4 A function derived from two given functions by integration which expresses how the shape of one is modified by the other.



Examples: 

‘The disorientation of the filaments around fiber axes is also treated as a convolution with a Gaussian function.’

‘This operation is accomplished in the frequency domain by making use of the fundamental mathematical relationship that multiplication in the frequency domain is equivalent to convolution in the time domain.’

‘We accomplish this shift by performing a 2 - D convolution of the image with a 7 x 7 low-pass filter mask.’

‘The width of the sine period that was used for convolution was taken equal to 13 pixels as this yielded the smoothest traces.’

‘In this way, a large number of very thin slabs would lead to a large number of parameters needing simultaneous refinement; moreover if the slabs were very thin they would be entirely smeared out after convolution with the Gaussian.’



4.1 A method of determination of the sum of two random variables by integration or summation.



Examples: 

‘The convolution method does not generate any new insight into what determines the value of [left angle bracket] Î ½ [right angle bracket], but it serves as a useful test case.’

‘Data analysis was carried out using a nonlinear, least-squares iterative convolution method based on the Marquardt algorithm.’

‘The convolution method increases the precision, relative to estimation of the individual linewidths by simulation.’

‘The convolution method was used to distinguish a cell from the background.’

‘The fitting of a sum of exponentials convoluted to an instrument response to experimental data is traditionally done by iterative convolution.’



Related Forms: 

convolutional, convolutionary  [kon-vuh-loo-shuh-ner-ee] /ˌkɒn vəˈlu ʃəˌnɛr i/, adjective
convolutional or convolutionary, adjective



French: 

NULL



